XFL Week 7: Highlights, game recaps, top players, news
We are getting down to crunch time of the XFL regular season in Week 7 with just three weeks left until the playoffs begin.

The Seattle Sea Dragons won their fifth straight game, looking poised Friday night against an Arlington Renegades team that is still hoping to challenge the Houston Roughnecks for the No. 1 spot in the South division.

The San Antonio Brahmas and Vegas Vipers faced off Saturday afternoon and flashed some of the best plays of the season (see below).

In the most surprising game of the week, the Orlando Guardians put up a fight against the previously undefeated D.C. Defenders for an instant XFL classic. Want to know what happened? Scroll down.

The St. Louis Battlehawks visited the Houston Roughnecks on Sunday and a strong first half by A.J. McCarron and the offense put St. Louis in the win column.

All the best highlights from Week 7 are below.

Every XFL game will be streamed live on ESPN+ and are available on the ESPN family of networks (ABC, ESPN and FX).

This weekend's games


Seattle Sea Dragons 24, Arlington Renegades 15
The Sea Dragons entered their first showdown with the Renegades of the season on a four-game win streak.

The first quarter was relatively quiet. The teams traded field goals -- highlighted by a 44-yard FG from Dragons K Dominik Eberle -- and entered the second quarter tied at 3.

After another Seattle field goal, the Sea Dragons defense said "my turn". Qwynnterrio Cole returned an interception 15 yards to set the Sea Dragons up on their own 43. Quarterback Ben DiNucci then hurled a 47-yard pass to WR Jordan Veasy, and two plays later, RB Darius Bradwell's two-yard rushing touchdown gave the Dragons a 13-3 lead.

However, the Renegades said "not so fast". Arlington QB Drew Plitt drove the offense down the field to set up De'Veon Smith for a one-yard rushing touchdown with one minute left on the clock before halftime.

That's when DiNucci put on his best no-huddle offense, drove down the field and found Josh Gordon in the end zone for a 24-yard touchdown pass. The Sea Dragons then succeeded on a 2-point conversion and led 21-9 entering halftime.

The Renegades attempted a fourth-quarter comeback to no avail. The Sea Dragons won a fifth-straight game and are on a roll a few weeks before the playoffs begin.

play
2:35
Sea Dragons pick up 5th straight win as they take down the RenegadesThe Sea Dragons are able to get the road win over the Renegades, giving them five straight victories on the season.


Vegas Vipers 26, San Antonio Brahmas 12
The Vipers (2-5) defeated the Brahmas (2-5) on Saturday afternoon, winning their second game in the last three weeks.

After a game-opening touchdown drive for the Brahmas, the Vipers responded with one of their own. QB Jalan McClendon led the Vipers down the field and hit Sean Price with a 33-yard touchdown pass and found Cam Sutton in the end zone for a 2-point conversion.

Entering the second quarter with a 8-6 lead, the Vipers then added a field goal. Brahmas WR Fred Brown responded loudly with a 96-yard kickoff return -- the first of the XFL season. The Brahmas couldn't score on the 2-point conversion for the second time of the half but took the 12-11 lead in the second quarter.

Unfortunately for San Antonio, it would be all Vegas from that point on. The Vipers went on to score 14 unanswered points, including a TD where Rod Smith hurdled into the end zone, keeping the Brahmas scoreless in the second half.

McClendon completed 21 of 31 passes for 264 yards with two touchdown passes. Brahmas QB Kurt Benkert, who suffered a chest injury and sat out a possession in the second quarter, finished 22-of-31 with 179 passing yards, a touchdown pass and one interception.

play
0:50
Brahmas' Fred Brown gets first kickoff return TD of the XFL seasonSan Antonio takes the lead as Fred Brown takes the kickoff to the house for the first kickoff return touchdown of the season.


Orlando Guardians 37, D.C. Defenders 36
The undefeated Defenders visited the winless Guardians and, well, I'm not sure anyone could have predicted what unfolded in Orlando Saturday night.

It would take too long to list every time each team scored. But here is the spark notes version. The game started out wild with a first quarter that saw four touchdowns -- two from each team. The Defenders entered halftime with a slim 22-18 lead.

The second half was one for the ages. Both teams traded scores up until the very end. The Guardians punted with just over two minutes to go and the Defenders took that opportunity to head down the field and attempt a 63-yard field goal with time expiring.

Plot twist: It was short and wide. The Guardians (1-6) defeated the previously undefeated Defenders (6-1).

Guardians QB Quinten Dormady had himself a game. He completed 27 of 34 passes and threw for 328 yards with three touchdowns in addition to three rushing touchdowns. That's six touchdowns against the best team in the league.

An instant XFL classic.

play
0:35
Cody Latimer scores 44-yard TDQuinten Dormady finds Cody Latimer for a 44-yard touchdown.


St. Louis Battlehawks 24, Houston Roughnecks 15
This game started messy with both teams committing a turnover on their first possessions of the game, but neither team could capitalize. On the Battlehawks second possession, QB AJ McCarron drove the offense down 96 yards in 13 plays. He hit WR Gary Jennings for a 14-yard touchdown, but couldn't convert on the 2-point conversion, giving St. Louis a 6-0 lead. By halftime, the Battlehawks lead was up to 17-9.

The Battlehawks (5-2) were looking to string together back-to-back wins for the first time since the first two weeks of the season. And even when the Roughnecks (4-3) fought back with touchdowns in the second and fourth quarters, St. Louis kept hitting right back to secure the win.

McCarron finished the game completing 26 of 34 passes for 222 yards and three touchdowns. Roughnecks QB Cole Macdonald completed 15-for-32 with 106 passing yards, one touchdown pass and an interception.


play
0:25
AJ McCarron drops a dime to Gary Jennings for a St. Louis TDSt. Louis gets on the board first as AJ McCarron throws a beautiful pass to Gary Jennings for a 15-yard touchdown.
