HIS EXCELLENCY THE PRESIDENT: —Honourable Members of the Legislative
Council. May I begin by welcoming you all to this first meeting of our new
session; noting for the record that our previous Standing Orders gave us a
remarkably long last session. Arguably, it might be said to have started in
1844!
But the beginning of a new session is an obvious opportunity for us to take
stock of ourselves, review the past and consider the future. The procedure we
have now adopted is designed to this end, and I hope honourable Members will
make full use of it. For my part, I shall first try to say something of the wide
and increasingly complex field of Hong Kong affairs. I fear that I can only be
highly selective: many important topics will have to go unmentioned or be
dealt with only inadequately. Some, at least, of those will no doubt be covered
later in our discussions.
It is only proper on this occasion to look back first at the legislative
achievements of the Council over the last twelve months. It has been another
very busy year for Members. We have passed sixty-two pieces of legislation,
among the ones of perhaps more general interest being the Community Chest of
Hong Kong Ordinance, the Dangerous
 *
 (L.N. 144/69).
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—1st October 1969. 3
Drugs Ordinance, and the Drug Addiction Treatment Centres Ordinance. This
year, too, we gave legislative effect to the grant of a franchise to construct a
tunnel across the Harbour, and to the Road Traffic Amendment Ordinance to
enable the operation of light vans to be regularized.
I would wish here to acknowledge with gratitude the heavy burden of work
that honourable Members have borne during the past year, not only in Council
itself, where we have had a number of important and useful debates, but also in
both the Committees of the Council and on other Committees of various kinds
which are not formally a part of this Council. I am very appreciative of the very
great assistance honourable Members have been to me and to the administration
generally.
Now let us turn to the main features of 1969 and, since this is the last year
of the decade, it would I think be appropriate also to look briefly over the whole
of the 1960's and forward a little into the 1970's.
The outstanding feature of the year, and the decade, has of course
undoubtedly been our rate of economic expansion. This has exceeded all
expectations, even of those who know Hong Kong well. So far this year our
domestic export performance is still being maintained at a rate of increase of
approximately 24-25% over 1968, in which year itself the increase was 25% over
1967. Since 1959 our domestic exports have, in fact, quadrupled by value.
Our tourist industry has greatly expanded also, the number of visitors having
multiplied by five times in the decade. The great interest shown more recently
by foreign investors in backing projects to serve tourism is a particularly
welcome feature. By way of a further indication of economic growth, and of
strong confidence in the future, bank deposits have increased five-fold in ten
years and bank loans have grown almost as fast.
Economic success has happily brought with it marked improvements in
standards of living. Although difficult to quantify, the signs of this raising of
general standards are clear to any observer who was here in the 1950's. Wages
are rising, and for the right reasons of economic prosperity. This is, socially, a
most welcome trend.
But, of course, commercial success has also brought its own difficulties
with it. We do have to recognize that we can be creating serious problems for
our trading partners, and we have to be ready to try to achieve amicable solutions
where we are convinced that this is genuinely so, while ensuring of course at all
times, so far as we can, our own best interests. We find, in general, that this
approach produces more beneficial results than a head-on collision, although
there are still occasional cases where trading partners take matters into their own
hands without prior consultation.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—1st October 1969. 4
[MR PRESIDENT]
Another feature of this decade has been the steady increase in the
purchasing power of our main markets. We must recognize however that this
has been stimulated by inflationary tendencies abroad which weaken the basis of
this expansion and bring other problems in their train. Although there have
been few signs yet of this expansion falling off, we must not assume that we can
continue to expand our exports at recent rates indefinitely.
The lesson of all this is that we must protect our future adequately, both by
maintaining reserves at suitable levels and by ensuring that the recurrent
expenditure to which we commit ourselves is at a level which can be borne in
possibly less favourable circumstances.
Industrial expansion has also created urgent needs for skilled and semiskilled labour. During the 1960's, and especially in perhaps more recent years,
our industries have developed a wider variety of manufacturing processes as well
as new products. These new processes and products require modern machinery,
but more importantly require skilled technologists, technicians, craftsmen and
designers. Having reached a state of near full employment of our existing
labour resources, we must now look for our main prospects of further advance to
the introduction of more sophisticated techniques. To sustain our prosperity,
and the prosperity of our work force, we must improve productivity and increase
the availability of skilled and semiskilled operatives. This clearly means that
there must be further advances over the whole spectrum of technical education—
a challengingly complex field which requires much care and much forethought.
It is a field in which we have made a determined start, although we have a long
way still to go. The 1970's will have to be a decade of emphasis on
consolidating the start that we have made.
The basis on which we must build is, of course, a sound primary educational
system and this we already have. Indeed we are likely to have a quite
considerable surplus of aided primary school places before 1971. Next,
Government has undertaken to bear the main responsibility for establishing
additional educational institutions, with either an emphasis on, or a bias towards,
practical training. Junior Technical Schools are now eligible for Government
financial assistance. These schools, when started, should provide prevocational education for young people at the skilled operative level. Then,
quite separately, the first Technical Institute was inaugurated in 1969 and will
shortly be moving to Morrison Hill; and others are being considered. Third, it
is intended to establish an additional Technical College, as part of a Polytechnic,
and planning for this is now in hand.
In parallel with these advances, the complicated problems of apprenticeship
training are being resolved. The Labour Department is now able to advise on
and guide the development of apprenticeship
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—1st October 1969. 5
schemes. And later in this Session honourable Members will, I hope, be asked
to consider an Apprenticeship Bill which is now under preparation.
How to integrate these Government efforts with the part industrial
employers must play remains something of a problem, but perhaps we shall see
our way more clearly as Government's own plans mature.
Another feature of the 1960's which sets the scene for the '70's is the
considerable number of detailed investigations for large-scale projects which
have been undertaken. There have been detailed studies made on water
supplies, the airport, the development of our roads, a mass transit system, urban
renewal, and the orderly development of medical facilities. Others will occur to
honourable Members and work has already started on some projects. Such
investigations may be time-consuming, but they are vital if we are not to make
mistakes. All look forward to the 1970's and even the 1980's, when we should
see much of the fruits of the planning of the 1960's: just as the 1960's saw the
results of the planning of the 1950's.
In all this planning, flexibility is of paramount importance. Contrary to
some popular belief, sound administration demands not early decisions on long
term plans of this kind, but the ability to defer final decisions, and to amend
plans up to the last practicable moment before work starts; for only in this way
can all the latest factors be taken fully into account.
One of the schemes on which a start is being made is urban renewal, on
which we are acquiring sites in the pilot scheme area on Hong Kong Island.
Re-development of the area and the provision of amenities cannot be quickly
achieved, but patience and forethought will gradually bring results.
Again, a five-year road programme has been drawn up by the Public Works
Department which, given the provision of funds by this Council, may eventually
cost some $500 million. Work has already started on some of the schemes
involved, as the flyovers and graded intersections which are now appearing bear
witness. Other long range plans may be formulated in the light of developments,
and in the light of the advice contained in the Long Term Road Study. Of
particular importance I think is the North East corridor scheme for Kowloon, and
the scheme to provide for the easier flow of traffic along the waterfront of Hong
Kong Island, which is now taking shape.
Water supplies are currently adequate but the estimated 7% compound rate
of yearly increase in demand is at present being exceeded. The raising of the
Plover Cove Dam has been approved, and, looking still further ahead, a detailed
investigation is being made into the proposed High Island Reservoir. An
experimental desalting plant is also being obtained to see whether such methods
are suitable here.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—1st October 1969. 6
[MR PRESIDENT]
Work has continued with the extension of the terminal facilities at the
Airport, and we have a report to hand on the facilities which are required for
estimated future trends in air cargo handling. The Harbour, too, is about to
undergo changes now that our principal markets are turning more and more to
containerized shipment. Container-handling facilities should soon be developed
at Tsim Sha Tsui and Government is working out possible methods of
implementing, in co-operation with private enterprise, certain proposals for the
construction of a full-scale terminal at Kwai Chung. These changes will enable
us to be abreast of these essentially overseas requirements on time.
Earlier plans for the development of public housing programmes progressed
steadily during the year. With over one third of the population now in publiclyprovided homes, we plan to accommodate a further 830,000 between 1968 and
1974. The emphasis in resettlement is shifting somewhat from providing for
now tenants, important though this need still is, towards improving standards for
those already housed in the older estates. Under the scheme for the relief of
overcrowding, some 38,000 resettlement tenants were moved into larger
accommodation during last year. Ways of achieving better management in the
resettlement estates are also being considered. Another problem is the private
abuse of public space in the estates. The growth of illegal hawking and the
careless disposal of refuse present problems which still remain to be overcome.
In Government low cost housing we reopened the register this year for new
applications. It is clear that most applicants want flats in the developed urban
areas. I understand the Housing Board is considering ways and means of
making the more outlying estates more popular, whilst ensuring that the building
programme for these estates does not markedly outstrip the demand.
Though land is very much in demand for other uses, recreational amenities
continue to expand and sites have been found for playgrounds, sports areas, parks
and, more recently, modem swimming pool complexes. The Public Works
Department is considering a multi-purpose indoor stadium to be placed on a
podium above the proposed new railway terminus at Hung Hom. I hope a
feasible design for consideration by honourable Members will emerge from this
investigation. Libraries too are being developed to add to the scope of
recreational opportunities.
In the medical field the fight against communicable diseases is unending.
The cyclical epidemic of measles expected last year did not however occur.
Cholera, too, was kept within tight bounds, although we have not been entirely
free of the disease these last few months. Building has progressed well on the
new 1,300-bed general hospital at Lai Chi Kok, and even before this is finished
another 1,200-bed Mental Hospital will be under construction there. The muchneeded Siu Lam
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—1st October 1969. 7
Hospital at Castle Peak for the mentally-retarded is also nearing completion.
The New Territories, too, have seen much steady development even in areas
of dispersed population. The extension of treated mains water supplies for
more villages is now in hand and I am very happy to see that, to the great credit
of the Company concerned, electricity supplies too are continuing to be extended
to relatively remote communities. With the help of the Army and a generous
private donor, many villages now have community television sets. Measures
such as these are consonant with our policy of bringing the amenities of the
remoter parts more into line with those in urban areas.
May I now turn to the state of public security and crime. While I naturally
share everyone's concern that those who perpetrated recent widely publicized
robberies be brought to book, and while I also hope that offences of this nature
will diminish, nevertheless we must keep the situation in proportion. It would
be wrong, I feel, to see too much in these recent occurrences. At a rate which is
conspiciously less than in many other parts of the world, reported crime in Hong
Kong has increased only slowly during, say, the last ten years. I am confident
that we have in the Colony as good if not a better capacity to combat crime as
exists in any similar city environment. Detection rates remain very high, and it
is intended that the Royal Hong Kong Police will continue to extend its physical
presence, especially in the newly-developed areas of Kowloon and New
Kowloon. It is timely, I feel, to remind ourselves that while the Police form that
full-time and trained body of men needed to detect and, as far as possible,
prevent crime, it is the duty of all to report all offences and to assist the Police
generally.
Finally, in this unavoidably short review of the year and the decade, I would
like to say a word about the younger generation. Census figures show clearly
how the number of young people between the ages of 15 and 20 began to
increase after 1963, as a result of a marked increase in the number of births after
the end of the Pacific War. This population characteristic is going to be with us
right through the '70's. It is therefore encouraging to see how many young
people of this age group have begun to take up, with commendable zeal and
enthusiasm, not only the opportunities which have been provided for recreation
in the summer but how they have also volunteered to make their own
contribution to the welfare of others. They have been led and helped, of course,
by many dedicated adults, to whom our sincere thanks are due, but the extent of
the participation by young people in such activities is a tribute to their soundness
of character. Sometimes we hear greater centralization of direction over youth
advocated. Frankly, I would not happily agree to any measures which would
tend towards the greater regimentation of young people and their activities. On
the contrary, while a degree of not too tight co-ordination is undoubtedly necessary,
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—1st October 1969. 8
[MR PRESIDENT]
it is more important to foster and encourage separate and differently sponsored
activities so that young people can themselves choose from the widest possible
variety of recreational pursuits, and the sponsors can have liberty to work out
their own individual ideas.
I have left out much that I would have liked to say about the progress we
have made: I can only apologize to all those whose contribution really deserves
a mention which they have failed to receive. I want, however, to refer back
now to parts of what I said at the time of the Budget Debate*
 concerning matters
on which I especially hoped to see progress made by early 1970. Progress on
some of these matters has indeed been made.
Happily, we have been able to agree substantial improvements in the
assistance available to university students. $3 million is available this year to
increase and extend grants, and a loan fund of $15 million has been started which
will allow about $3 million each year for interest-free loans to students.
At the other end of the educational scale we have reduced primary school
fees still further, with fees at very low levels: plus the number of free places
and remissions which can be granted, we are indeed close to aided primary
education for all those who desire it.
The Harbour Tunnel is, of course, now under construction, and the minivans
have been regularized as light buses, adjusting in the urban areas fairly
satisfactorily on the whole to their new existence. In the New Territories the
special needs of the rural areas do seem to require that some additional measures
be taken to improve the system and these are under consideration. One thing,
however, I would like to say to Public Light Bus licensees. The concession
which gave previous operators of minivans priority of consideration for the issue
of public light bus licences can be justified only if those licensees now adhere
strictly to those few restrictions which have in the public interest been imposed
on them. They have been greatly favoured and they must recognise this fact.
They must understand clearly that any individual licensees who persist in failing
to conform to the law, risk having this concession rescinded; and that steps may
be taken to replace such licensees by other and more responsible operators.
Four pieces of draft legislation on subjects I covered in my April address
have been published and will be presented this Session. In May a bill was
produced to establish a framework for the voluntary management of multi-storey
residential buildings where each home is under separate ownership. I know
several Members of Council have taken great care and expended much effort to
promote public discussion of the contents of this bill by holding meetings,
organized by the City
 *
 1969 Hansard, page 62 et seq.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—1st October 1969. 9
District Officers, with representative bodies and organizations. The Marriage
Reform Bill and the Intestates' Estates Bill, after a long period of meticulous
study and consultation, have been published for public comment. More
recently the Prevention of Bribery Bill has similarly been published. All these
important and complex bills will, I hope, be turned into law this Session with
whatever amendments Council decides upon in the light of the comments that we
receive.
One of the more urgent problems touched upon during the Budget Debate
was that of hawker facilities and hawker control*
. During the past six months,
the Urban Council has re-examined and agreed upon the principles for an overall
policy and established a priority working programme. It is, of course, only
sensible to recognize that hawkers have legitimate and reasonable needs and to
attempt to provide, wherever possible, for them. It is equally true to say that
rules must be made and adhered to if hawking is not to clog the streets and raise
unacceptable health and fire hazards. I understand the Urban Council Hawker
Select Committees are working hard to up-date the regulations and formulate
suitable plans. Implementation without friction is obviously going to be
difficult but the Urban Services Department has tackled the question of
expanding its Hawker Liaison Staff to work among, and with, the hawkers
themselves. Generally, it is a matter of putting into practice the most equitable
policies that can be devised, and a small start has been made in improving the
most congested of the hawker areas. I ask the hawker community to try to
understand that we are endeavouring to act in the best interests of all, and ask
them to try to co-operate with the Urban Council, Urban Services Staff and the
Police as far as they can. Their suggestions will always be taken into account as
far as it is reasonably possible to do so.
We have made more progress with labour legislation than meets the eye,
although I could have hoped to reach the final stage of presentation to this Council
earlier in a number of cases. But this is a peculiarly difficult and complicated
area, on which much consultation is necessary: and consultation, as I have said
before on a number of occasions, makes for slow progress. Nevertheless, the
Workmen's Compensation Bill has now been considered in Executive Council
and should be presented here shortly. We hope, through its provisions, to increase
the maximum limit of benefits for injured workmen and bring these benefits more
into line with the new generally higher level of wages prevailing. Draft
legislation will also, I hope, be ready for consideration in the near future with a
view to establishing better priorities for employees' earned wages when a firm is
forced to go into liquidation or bankruptcy. We shall also be taking draft
amending bills to the Employment Ordinance, including one designed to enable
workers to take, voluntarily, four rest days a month without breach of their terms
 *
 1969 Hansard, page 71.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—1st October 1969. 10
[MR PRESIDENT]
of employment, and to provide security of employment for women who need to
take maternity leave. Another draft amending bill aims to extend the right to
take statutory holidays with pay to non-industrial workers and to improve
entitlement to sickness allowances.
But I still remain of the view that great scope for improvements in the field
of labour-management relations lies in improving the consultative machinery
between the factory floor and the management offices. The Labour Department,
I know, is doing its utmost to promote joint consultative committees and I look
forward to seeing a growing response from all spheres of industry.
Before leaving this topic I would like just to mention the idea of labour
courts, which we are considering at official levels. I believe there may be merit
in the idea of establishing a quicker, simpler mechanism than is provided by
recourse to the ordinary courts, of resolving claims for the settlement of legal
obligations arising out of contracts of employment. But lest the whole idea be
misunderstood right from the start, let me emphasize that labour courts are part
of a judicial, not an executive, machinery. They deal with specific, identifiable
claims by employees on employers and vice versa just as the ordinary courts do:
the difference lying only in greater simplicity and in speed of procedure.
Specifically, it is not their function to adjudicate generalized disputes over, for
example, such matters as requests for increased wages or improved conditions of
service. What they should do is to enable certain types of specific claim to be
adjudicated instead of having to be settled through the conciliation machinery.
In April I paid particular attention to the progress we wish to make this
Session in moving towards an organized and wholly Government-sponsored
system of public assistance*
. Since I last spoke, a request has been made to Her
Majesty's Government in London for expert advice on the types of procedures
which can best be devised for Hong Kong. We now have good reason to
believe that such advice will be forthcoming. In the meantime a careful study
has been made of possible avenues for development and broad lines of policy are
being formulated. Again we are making more progress than may be apparent
and I am anxious to be able to present concrete proposals to honourable
Members here before too long.
Last April, I said I thought it desirable to make progress in introducing a
few less controversial but still important changes in the form of the Urban
Council†
. Many ideas have been expressed by those interested, and the time has
now come to make a selection between them with a minimum of further ado, in
order to enable a few deliberate steps to be taken soon. A number of proposals
are now in a fairly
 *
 1969 Hansard, page 61.
†
 1969 Hansard, page 62.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—1st October 1969. 11
advanced state of preparation for presentation to the Executive Council shortly;
and perhaps to this Council before the end of the present Session depending on
the complexity of whatever actual legislation turns out to be needed. In
formulating these proposals, account will naturally be taken of the views
expressed in the Urban Council's report, so far as it proves possible to accept
them.
There have been some additional views expressed both in the press and in a
recent Justice report on the need for an ombudsman here. It was somewhat
disappointing to me to see that little real contribution had been made towards
resolving the basic doubts I expressed on the subject last time I spoke about it.
I am still very unsure in my own mind that an ombudsman, restricted as well as
bolstered as he must inevitably be by his legal powers, will really be able to
achieve anything that cannot be achieved by a suitably assisted UMELCO office:
indeed, I still think he will achieve less. I know honourable Members have
given a great deal of thought in past months to the proper organization of this
office: and I still think your proposals should, when finally formulated, be put
into effect and evaluated first before we go any further.
The questions of teachers' pay and equal pay have both progressed
considerably since I last spoke, and, depending on the progress of consultations,
it should certainly be possible to put concrete proposals to the Finance
Committee of Council this session.
I spoke also of the Kai Tak runway last April*
. I think here we must
regretfully forget about any loan from Her Majesty's Government in the United
Kingdom and now decide the issue on its own merits and in the light of the
probability of either having to finance the whole project directly ourselves, or
perhaps with the help of contractor or other finance. A submission to put the
issues to the Executive Council will be ready for presentation very shortly, prior
to presentation to the Finance Committee of this Council. In the meanwhile, no
time, I repeat again, has been lost if the Executive Council and this Council
advise that we go ahead: the position is that contract documents are being
prepared and, until they are ready, the next step could not in any event be taken.
But once these documents are ready, tenders for the work could be called for
very quickly and physical work start quite shortly thereafter.
There is one additional matter, which was not mentioned in my address last
April, on which I also hope we shall soon be able to reach a conclusion. It
relates to our target figures for the provision of government and aided places in
post-primary educational institutions. The 1965 White Paper on Education†
 set
the aim at 15-20% of the total number of pupils completing the primary course.
Now that primary
 *
 1969 Hansard, page 70.
†
 1965 Hansard, page 411.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—1st October 1969. 12
[MR PRESIDENT]
education is so close to fulfilling its target, and also because recent decisions
have already made this figure unrealistically low in practice, it is obviously time
to reconsider the figure and to set a new target. What this target should be for
the future is now under examination.
Before I finish, may I express appreciation of the work of the public service
as a whole which has played a key role in almost every achievement. Public
duties demand high standards of efficiency and dedication and I am happy to
have this opportunity to express my own personal thanks for much work well
done. The demands of expansion fall, initially, on the more experienced serving
officers, who, in a growing service, are inevitably relatively thin on the ground;
and to these hard-pressed officers I am particularly grateful.
The provision of staff is often our greatest difficulty in maintaining the
desired rate of expansion of services. As in the private sector, Government has
its problems in finding men or women with the experience or qualifications
required for the tasks in hand or in mind. The shortages are for both
professional and administrative officers. A committee under Sir Charles
HARTWELL has proposed possible methods of ameliorating our shortage of doctors,
and there is hope that this particular problem may somewhat recede for the
present. Every effort is being made in recruitment, and by in-service training,
to expand and improve the middle and senior ranks of the service. I would
stress, that this situation is not new, nor acute, but, as I have often said before, it
must not be lightly assumed that ideas and then money are all that is required to
maintain progress.
In conclusion, then, 1969 has been on the whole a good year in the upward
trend of a flourishing decade. Much has been achieved, many plans have been
laid for further achievement. With economic expansion we must beware of
latent forces which can cause a levelling of the rate of growth and we must adapt
to the pressing demands for further sophistication. But I am wholly confident
that the 1970's will see still further very substantial progress in the well-being of
our people, continuing the pattern of the last decade.
And now, may I wish honourable Members, on whom so much
responsibility rests, every success in their deliberations during this session