HIS EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR: —Honourable Members, it is for me a very
happy augury that my first address to you should coincide with the introduction
of the simultaneous interpretation system. English and Cantonese now have
equal use in this Council, and from now on our proceedings will be equally
accessible to both language groups. Many people have worked hard to achieve
this result, and of them two are particularly in my thoughts—the first is Sir
Kenneth Ping-fan FUNG, Chairman of the Chinese Language Committee, and the
second is the interpreter himself, who is so manfully today making his debut.
Though honourable Members are partly concealed behind this new forest of
microphones, it is with some diffidence that I expose to them your Government's
plans for comment or approval. I am very conscious of the far greater
qualifications of my predecessors. As I have read the files I have appreciated
the strength and wisdom of my immediate predecessor, Sir David TRENCH.
Some of what I shall propose today is borrowed or adapted from ideas of his
which I have inherited.
I know I have asked many questions. I am greatly indebted to the answers
and advice which honourable Members of this Council and Executive Council
have been kind enough to give me. So too am I indebted to some members of
the Urban Council, and indeed to many others. Might I add that I have
sometimes found that most refreshing and illuminating the comments of people I
have met in
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—18th October 1972 3
the streets or in the villages. Finally, I cannot express adequately my gratitude
for the support and expertise of the public services and particularly their senior
members and above all the Colonial Secretary. I realize that a new Governor
can be a demanding and somewhat unruly colleague.
Though it has been a busy year it has been a fascinating one. I have come
back to a Hong Kong which is more developed and prosperous and of far greater
stature than the one I knew 10 years ago. But also I find it more expectant of its
Government.
In this first year I have been conscious of the need on the one hand to learn
as much about everything as possible, and on the other to be selective on
proposals for action. I have therefore concentrated on defining broad objectives
in three fields where this seemed particularly necessary at this juncture—housing,
education and social welfare.
I have also spent much time and thought on the two prerequisites of the very
continuance of our community—on the one hand the prosperity that has provided
everything that has been done or which ever will be done and, on the other,
public safety. Obviously prosperity and social progress are of little value if
unaccompanied by the ease of mind that only personal safety can produce.
These will be my principal themes today.
I have also tried to take a fresh look at the Civil Service. I hope that with
the progressive implementation of the recommendations of the Salaries
Commission its conditions will have been considerably improved. It is a most
excellent instrument of Government and I have been struck by the enthusiasm
and personal involvement of so many of its members. However some of the
procedures and arrangements of work, which are the legacy of history, do seem
to me and to the Colonial Secretary to merit re-examination in the light of the
greatly changed conditions of modem Hong Kong including, in particular, the
great expansion of the scale and scope of Government. This examination is
being conducted jointly by outside consultants and the Government, and though
the process is still far from complete many new ideas have emerged. While
today I cannot prejudge our verdict on these, I can say that their tendency is to
achieve greater delegation of decisions, while retaining the essential degree of
centralized control of policy and finance. They thus may produce a more even
spread of work, and hopefully less bottlenecks, with greater responsibility and
thus initiative in the Departments and at the middle levels, and more time to
think, plan and co-ordinate at the top.
I now turn to housing. There is no field in which Hong Kong's pressure of
people has produced acuter problems or one in which the Government's response
has been so vigorous or received such
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—18th October 1972 4
[H.E. THE GOVERNOR]
international acclaim. 1.6 million people have been housed at low rents in
Government housing estates. Many of the later estates provide good examples
of a solution to Hong Kong's particular problem of living at densities higher than
anywhere else in the world. Most of the larger squatter colonies have
disappeared. Much of the aging and dilapidated pre-war tenement property has
been replaced in the process of private development. There has been some
thinning out of overcrowding in old properties, and the rise in population in
Kowloon and Hong Kong Island has been halted and slightly reversed.
But in spite of this effort the problem still remains. 300,000 people still
live in squatter huts or temporary housing. Many units in resettlement estates
are badly overcrowded, or have no separate wash places or lavatories. It is
estimated that a further 310,000 people would need rehousing if all of those in
shared private flats and tenements were to have a self-contained home, and few
of these can afford the rents asked by private landlords. It is my conclusion that
the inadequacy and scarcity of housing and all that this implies, and the harsh
situations that result from it, is one of the major and most constant sources of
friction and unhappiness between the Government and the population. It
offends alike our humanity, our civic pride and our political good sense.
Honourable Members might agree that in this city of rising standards and rising
expectations it is not a situation we can accept indefinitely. Nevertheless it
exists and will continue to exist unless we are prepared to take determined action
over a considerable period.
The Housing Board and the Government departments concerned have
therefore drawn up a plan. For planning purposes a target time is necessary, if
only because any such plan must also provide for the annual natural growth of
population. The target taken, which I repeat is as a basis for calculation, is 10
years and has as its objective to build on such a scale that, with the contribution
of the private sector, there will be sufficient permanent self-contained
accommodation in a reasonable environment for every inhabitant of Hong Kong.
Such a target, if achieved, would lead to the virtual disappearance of squatter
areas, eliminate overcrowding and sharing in both private and public housing,
and in addition provide accommodation for those who have to be rehoused in
consequence of development schemes and other situations where housing is
offered to the homeless or unfortunate, and would also keep pace with the natural
expansion of the population.
Such a target could be achieved, even in a planned period of 10 years, if we
were to build steadily at about the rate of completion in the best years hitherto;
that is to say at the rate of about 180,000 personal units a year; the total
requirement for public housing, in
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—18th October 1972 5
addition to the contribution of the private sector in the same period—which
would be vital—is to house 1.8 million people. The rate of building would of
course have to be kept flexible to take account of the resources available as year
succeeded year.
The total cost of developing sites and building housing for this number of
people, even allowing only 35 sq. ft. per person at present day prices, would
amount to the formidable sum of $3,340 million.
While the search for new sites in the urban areas will continue, obviously if
environmental standards are to improve the bulk of the new housing must be
provided in the new towns in the New Territories—the complex of Tsuen Wan,
Tsing I and Kwai Chung, Sha Tin and Castle Peak.
For such a programme to succeed and to be acceptable to the potential
inhabitants, three things seem to me essential.
First, good communications with the old urban areas. For Sha Tin this
means a four-lane highway and tunnel and double tracking the railway to provide
a ten-minute service. For Castle Peak it means a completely new motor road
from Tsuen Wan.
Secondly, the housing in the new towns must be accompanied by a full
ration of what is essential to modem life: medical, and secondary as well as
primary educational facilities, parks and playgrounds, police stations, markets,
fire and ambulance stations, community centres and much else. Thirdly, there
must be work, and so sites for private commercial and residential development.
These towns in fact must be built as a whole. We have taken the first steps in
this direction in the Lek Yuen estate at Sha Tin and in the third stage of the Lei
Muk Shue estate at Kwai Chung.
Quite apart from the expansion of the main new towns in the New
Territories, housing is also required for the rural areas and smaller New
Territories townships, and also for boat squatter areas and for those who wish to
live ashore. Plans are therefore in hand to provide a number of estates in these
more remote areas. Although the number to be housed is only 30,000, it is a
significant step that public housing is to be provided in places such at Tai O
where nothing has ever been done in this respect before.
It will be clear to honourable Members that, quite apart from the financial
aspects of such a programme, a massive administrative and professional effort
will be required and that a high degree of efficiency and co-ordination will be
essential in the planning, management and construction of housing under the new
programme.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—18th October 1972 6
[H.E. THE GOVERNOR]
While the different authorities, boards, organizations and departments,
operating in this field have all done sterling work, and for which Hong Kong has
good reason to be grateful, I believe that they would be the first to agree that this
fragmentation of effort does not make for the most efficient use of our resources.
Indeed it is apparent that in the past the housing programme as a whole has
suffered from the absence of unified control and administration. To give the
new programme the support and thrust which it deserves we therefore propose to
make a fresh start. What we propose is to vest in a single body the powers and
functions that are at present fragmented, that is to say those of the Housing Board;
those of the Urban Council and the Commissioner for Resettlement under the
Resettlement Ordinance; and those of the Housing Authority under the Housing
Ordinance. We propose to associate with this single body a unified Housing
Department. This will be responsible for the planning, administration and
construction—in co-operation of course with the PWD—of all public housing in
the Colony, and also for all the duties hitherto carried out by the Resettlement
Department and the staff of the Housing Authority.
We have given much thought to what the new single body should be and we
have concluded that it should be the Housing Authority. Under the proposed
new arrangements the Authority will assume responsibilities which are quite new,
colony-wide and of vastly greater financial significance than hitherto. There
will have to be some adjustment and widening of unofficial membership to
reflect this new situation. Room will also need to be made for officials to be
members in order to achieve the necessary degree of interdepartmental
coordination. On the other hand there is obviously a limit to the size of a body
that will be capable of giving the necessary direction with the necessary speed.
Urban Councillors have done fine work as members of the Housing Authority, of
which they and indeed all of us in Hong Kong have every right to be proud.
But in the new situation I do not think that it will be practical, or even
appropriate, that all 24 councillors should have places on the new Authority.
Though I am sure that because of their experience and interest Urban Councillors
ought to be the biggest single group on it.
We will be introducing legislation which will spell out the details, and give
effect to the other proposals I have outlined, so that they may come into force at
the start of the next financial year.
Your Government is determined that this group of measures and the action
that will follow, shall give new impetus to the solution of this 20 years old
problem.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—18th October 1972 7
I now turn to education. The objective of making free primary education
available for all has been achieved. Your Government appreciates that what is
now needed is to improve quality, and will exert itself in this respect.
But I think honourable Members will agree with the proposition that during
the rest of the '70s the main thrust of our educational effort must be in secondary
and technical education, not of course forgetting that increased secondary
education carries with it the necessity for increasing correspondingly facilities in
the tertiary field.
We are well on the way to achieving the present interim target of 3 years
post-primary education for 50% of all children in the 12-14 year age group.
Partial objectives, however necessary initially, make for distortion unless
replaced by absolute objectives as soon as practicable. Our absolute objective
of course is the provision of 3 years secondary education for all in the 12-14 year
age group, and your Government proposes that we should address ourselves to
this objective forthwith.
In recent months the Education Department and the Secretariat have worked
hard on the practicalities and implications of such a change in objectives.
One must not under-rate the size of the operation involved, which requires
the provision of 184,000 assisted places in forms 1-3 additional to those now
available. About 20,000 of these extra places would be in pre-vocational
schools. Some would be in Government secondary technical schools, where
numbers would be substantially increased.
A further recommendation is to double the percentage of places in
secondary schools for the full 5-year courses leading to a Certificate of Education
examination. This would require 55,000 places in forms 4 and 5 additional to
those now available, and a substantial increase in the number of places in
Government secondary technical schools is also planned.
In addition to these proposals for increased secondary education it is also
hoped to provide 5 additional technical institutes by 1980 of which 2 should open
in 1975.
To staff this expansion with teachers the output of the 3 existing colleges of
education would be increased by 2,000 by 1976, and thereafter the construction
of a fourth college or other means would be necessary.
As honourable Members will appreciate, an expansion of the extent
proposed carries with it financial implications which the Government and they
will wish to examine closely in due course. But it also
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—18th October 1972 8
[H.E. THE GOVERNOR]
implies possibilities which are as exciting as they are far-reaching for our whole
educational system. This hitherto has been based on the regrettable but
inescapable assumption that there will be far fewer places available in secondary
schools than students wishing to fill them. It has been this disproportion of
places between primary and secondary schools that has lain at the root of the
intensity of competition for the present Secondary Schools Entrance Examination
with all that this implies for students, teachers and parents alike. It is arguable
that it has also distorted both the curricula and teaching methods.
If therefore the proposals to increase the provision of secondary school
places commend themselves to honourable Members, I think we should seize the
opportunity to bring professional and public, as well as official, opinion to bear
on the type of secondary education we should aim at in the new and less
restricted circumstances, including the question of what examination system
would be appropriate and what curricula. I suggest that the right time to do this
is now at the start of the new programme.
I therefore propose to ask the Board of Education to advise me on these
important issues as soon as possible and as a basis for its deliberations to submit
to it the detailed plans which the Education Department has already drawn up.
Amongst other things it would be valuable to have its advice on the speed at
which it is practicable to plan to achieve this target. Connected with this is the
extent to which they consider bisessionalism appropriate as a permanent or
interim measure. I might add that it is the view of the Government that an
element of bisessionalism is essential if rapid progress is to be made.
Their view would also be valuable on the extent to which it is necessary to
extend assisted places to all in the 12-14 year group. Clearly those must be
assisted who could not otherwise afford to attend school, or the object of the
reform would be frustrated; but what of those who could and would pay?
The term of office of the Board of Education has lapsed, and in
reconstituting the Board I will have very much in mind the need for a body
willing and qualified to undertake this important work.
I said earlier that an expansion of secondary education carried with it the
necessity for an increase in the tertiary field. The demand for tertiary education
in Hong Kong far outstrips existing facilities, and steps to increase these have
been taken. This is both because a wider provision of tertiary education is good
in itself, and because our society stands in urgent need of substantially increasing
numbers of well qualified young people who can be trained for professional,
technical administrative and executive roles.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—18th October 1972 9
By 1974 the number of places in our two Universities will be some 6,000.
This will mean that the Universities will have the capability of turning out about
1,600 graduates each year.
Plans are now in hand to raise the number of university places from 6,000 to
8,400 by 1978. The University and Polytechnic Grants Committee believes that
an expansion of this order could be achieved without dilution of quality.
This total is unlikely to be sufficient for our needs beyond the late seventies
and in the eighties, and we are therefore already considering ways in which
university education in Hong Kong can be further extended.
But the major expansion in tertiary education will be achieved by the new
Hong Kong Polytechnic. It has had a slow start—perhaps inevitable in a wholly
new venture—but under a dynamic Board I have every hope that it will achieve
its target of 8,000 full-time and 20,000 part-time students by 1978. Together
with the expansion of the universities this will mean that by 1978 tertiary
education in Hong Kong will have been at least trebled.
I am sure that honourable Members will join me in wishing the Board of the
Polytechnic and staff success in this work. Its importance for Hong Kong is
very great and the need for rapid progress unquestionable.
So to sum up, we envisage educational facilities along the following lines:
free primary education for all followed by secondary education for all to the age
of 14; the latter to include an expanded pre-vocational or technical stream. At
that point there will be on the one hand greatly expanded facilities for further
secondary education leading to the Certificate of Education; on the other, young
people will be able to choose between going into industry, or acquiring a
qualification in a technical institute. Even if they go into industry, they will be
able to benefit from the technical institutes through apprenticeship courses. In
the post-secondary field we envisage a substantial expansion of tertiary education
in the existing Universities and in the new Polytechnic. I might add that we
hope that some young people who do not go through forms IV and V may
nevertheless benefit from facilities for part-time instruction in the places of
tertiary education.
I turn now briefly to another branch of our social services, that of medicine
and health. The past decade has witnessed a great improvement. The
continued decline in death rate, the fall in infant and maternal mortality rates, and
the reduced incidence of communicable disease make this evident. Indeed, as I
know, the success of our medical services has a high international reputation.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—18th October 1972 10
[H.E. THE GOVERNOR]
Our goals are those of the 1964 White Paper, and considerable progress has
been made towards them. There are at present about 16,900 beds in various
Government, Government-subvented and private institutions. Another 2,000
beds will be available with the completion of the new Lai Chi Kok Hospital, the
United Christian Hospital and other projects in the pipeline. We are therefore
confident that by 1973-74, at the end of the ten-year period of the White Paper,
we will have achieved the proportion of 4.25 beds to one thousand population,
which it recommended.
Since 1970, the intake of medical students into the University of Hong
Kong has been increased from 120 to 150. This should go a long way towards
relieving the shortage of doctors and we hope that this problem will be greatly
diminished by 1978.
For the past decade the emphasis has been on a hospital building
programme of unprecedented dimensions; it is now proposed that over the next
few years emphasis should be rather on consolidation. This will include
improvement of the quality of services and the better utilization of existing beds
in both Government and subvented hospitals.
We also have two new developments in mind.
One is in the field of dentistry. At present the Medical Department
provides a dental service for in-patients of Government hospitals and for
Government officers and their dependents, and emergency treatment is available
for the general public.
This clearly is an area in which we now need to develop and as a first step
we are considering establishing a school dental health programme to provide
children with routine check-ups and simple conservative treatment. Initially the
programme might cover all children entering Primary One class in a given year.
It could gradually be extended to cover all children in the primary school age
group. Thereafter and in the light of experience we might consider extending it
for both post-primary and pre-primary school children.
To provide such a service it would be necessary to establish a school for
training the dental nurses required to support and supplement the professional
work of the limited number of qualified dentists in Hong Kong, and we expect to
put specific proposals for such a school to the Executive Council very soon.
The second development we propose relates to family planning.
Since the mid-fifties the Government has supported family planning mainly
by subventions to the Family Planning Association and the Catholic Marriage
Advisory Council.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—18th October 1972 11
During the past decade the decline in our birth rate has been significant; it
has fallen from 40 per 1,000 in 1962 to 19.4 per 1,000 in 1971.
The figures I have quoted for our housing and educational requirements
illustrate the demands that sheer pressure of people generates, and it is clearly in
the public interest as well as in the interest of family health that the blessing of
children should be bestowed at a rate which is planned and not profligate.
While we shall look to the two Associations to continue their fine work,
there is a limit to the extent that we can impose on their members who devote
many hours of their time to this work. I therefore hope that plans will soon be
put to the Executive Council for the direct participation of the Medical
Department in family planning.
This brings me to social welfare. Inevitably I look back at the scene as it
was 10 years ago when social welfare work was just emerging from the stage of
an emergency operation to give assistance to the new influx of population in the
1950s.
I note that the economic and social progress achieved in the last 10 years
has enabled a substantial advance to be made. For instance, a Government
system of public assistance in cash has been introduced. In the community
development field there is now a system of estate welfare buildings bringing
together under one roof the welfare services for people living in resettlement
estates. Family welfare services have been re-organized on a regional basis and
their services integrated and made more comprehensive. Progress has been
made in helping the disabled—some training centres have been opened, and a
range of vocational and pre-vocational training facilities now exist. The
probation and correctional services have been expanded and refined.
These are notable advances. While no one will claim that they measure up
to the requirements of Hong Kong in either size or scope, they nevertheless do
provide a sound base of carefully thought out and increasingly professional
activity over a wide field. What I suggest is now required is firstly a
comprehensive plan for orderly expansion, and secondly a corps of trained
professionals to carry it out.
Let me take the second point first: the corps of professionals. I have
found general agreement that the days are over when social welfare in Hong
Kong was an emergency service where primary requirement was for enthusiasm,
energy and devotion. These qualities are still called for and always will be, but
now expertise and professionalism will be increasingly necessary.
Hong Kong has been well served by the social welfare departments of its
two universities, but there is great need for training below the
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—18th October 1972 12
[H.E. THE GOVERNOR]
university level. The Government therefore proposes to establish an Institute
for Social Work Training, providing two-year courses leading to a diploma or
certificate. The institute will be open alike to those proposing to enter
Government service or to work in the voluntary agencies.
This new institute, together with the in-take of social science graduates,
should provide for the pre-service training of an adequate corps of professional
social workers.
In addition, in-service training facilities are essential for both Government
and voluntary agency workers alike, to promote new ideas, to maintain and
improve standards, and provide for exchange and evaluation of ideas gained in
the field.
Clearly it would be desirable for these two institutions to be under one roof,
which would be as it were the power house of training and ideas for the
development of social welfare in Hong Kong. The Government therefore
proposes to expand the Lady Trench Centre forthwith to be able to meet these
two requirements, and it is planned that a new Institute for Social Work Training,
to be set up in the Lady Trench Centre, will take in its first students next year.
So much for the people; now for the philosophy and the plan. In order to
formulate these the Government set up new planning machinery, and in concert
with representatives of the Hong Kong Council of Social Service and the
voluntary social welfare agencies a white paper has been drafted. It is entitled:
"Social Welfare in Hong Kong: The way ahead", and will in its final form
incorporate a complementary, detailed 5-year plan. I consider it a most valuable
contribution. Its proposals represent a practical consensus of informed and
experienced social welfare opinion on both the philosophy and the details of a
carefully phased expansion programme.
The Government will lay before the Executive Council a series of papers
covering different aspects of this plan; some of these are now ready, others
require further work. But I think that honourable Members will wish to see the
White Paper as it now stands and consider their attitude towards the broad
picture and its main proposals, in advance of consideration of the Government's
eventual proposals in the form either of new legislation or submission to the
committees of this Council. It is therefore being tabled at once, as its stands,
that is to say as a draft white paper—perhaps the correct description of its present
status would be "green paper".
I am very glad that the joint planning and consultative machinery set up
between the Government and the voluntary services has proved
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—18th October 1972 13
itself to be so effective and constructive, and I am sure that one recommendation
that will commend itself to honourable Members is that this machinery should be
established on a permanent basis so that all concerned should continue in the
future to work together on an agreed basis to serve Hong Kong.
The proposals envisage 4 main areas for development of which the first two
are concerned with help in cash and the second two with help by service.
The first area covers assistance to those who through causes outside their
control have not adequate means of support. This is the area in which the
public assistance scheme already in existence is progressively proving its value.
The second area is assistance in cash to what the paper describes as vulnerable
groups. It is suggested that the first of such groups which might be singled out
as beneficiaries are the severely disabled and elderly infirm. But there are other
groups, for instance the chronically sick or widowed mothers with young
children, which might eventually be included in the scheme.
In respect of this area the paper makes the interesting proposal that financial
support should be given to such groups regardless of their means—that is to say
on proof of disability, just as people are eligible for public assistance on proof of
poverty. It is maintained that in practice such a principle would not be abused
and it would vastly simplify administrative procedures and costs. I am sure that
honourable Members will wish to look closely at this aspect of the proposal, and
I will be interested to hear their comments. While there is much to be said on
either side, I hope that there will be general agreement firstly that extension of
assistance to the disabled and infirm is a commendable objective to which we
should now address ourselves; and secondly that the important thing is to get
such a scheme going, and to learn from practical experience what administrative
arrangements are ultimately most appropriate. The third area is provision of
facilities for the disabled, so that there may be comprehensive services to meet
their known needs in the field of training, employment and housing, particularly
so as to help them to be independent and self-supporting members of the
community. Here clearly employers will have a vital role to play. In this area
the problem of providing for the elderly also bulks large. This is now being
examined by a working party of members from the Government and the
voluntary sector. The elderly should of course benefit both from public
assistance and from the disability scheme I have already referred to. But the
object of the further services we have in mind would be to enable them to remain
in the community as long as possible. The objective for the elderly might be
described as care within the community. Finally the plan contains
comprehensive proposals for extending the
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—18th October 1972 14
[H.E. THE GOVERNOR]
existing limited network of community and social centres operated by the Social
Welfare Department to cover the whole of Hong Kong. Considerable expansion
of social and recreational facilities, primarily through the voluntary agencies, is
also envisaged.
Honourable Members will no doubt wish to look closely at the details of the
implications of this plan, but I am confident that the idea of now laying down the
lines along which social welfare should be extended, and providing for the
training of the people to extend it, will meet with your general approval. I hope
that with your support these proposals will give new life to the social welfare
services and new hope to those who benefit from them.
I would like at this point to say a word about social security. It is an
emotive phrase, and means different things in different countries. But basically
it should mean that provision by the state enables people to live secure in the
knowledge that they and their children will be protected from the worst effects of
adversity. In some countries it has been codified in a comprehensive unified
system. Though this has not been done in Hong Kong we are nevertheless in a
fair way to having such provision by the state. I have just referred to what is
already being done and what it is proposed will be done in the field of what we
call social welfare. But to this should be added our medical services, as no one
need now pay more than a small fee for treatment either at a clinic or in
hospital—and fees are remitted for the needy. Added also should be our
educational system which provides free primary education, and in which nobody
is deprived of secondary or tertiary education because of lack of means. Add
also the provision of low rent Government housing on a scale unknown
elsewhere in the world for those with low incomes. I find this a very extensive
system of social security based on the principle of assistance for those in need.
There is nothing else quite like it anywhere in the world. It is something
characteristic of and unique to Hong Kong, something we may be proud of and
something on which we may build with confidence as our resources allow.
I wish here to add another general point about the Government's attitude to
payment for services provided by the tax payer such as housing, secondary and
tertiary education, and so on. We are all agreed that these needs should be
provided as cheaply as possible, as our means allow. But if, and I repeat if, we
are ever faced with a choice between having the means to provide the
infrastructure, that is to say the houses, the schools, the universities and the staff
to work them on the one hand, and of providing them free or almost free on the
other, I am sure that honourable Members, and indeed the people of Hong Kong,
would agree that at this stage of our development, while
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—18th October 1972 15
we have a population that is predominantly young and active, the first call on
Government should always be to provide the physical infrastructure leaving for
later—and as our resources are available—the lowering of payments by those
benefiting who are able to pay.
Honourable Members will not wish me to leave social services without
some reference to the field of labour.
During the past five years, sixty-five items of labour legislation have been
enacted. They have covered a wide range—protection of wages; a minimum
number of rest days; better compensation terms; a progressive reduction in hours
of work for women and young persons; provision for the labour tribunal which
will now start work on the 1st of March next year.
But we accept that a good deal remains to be done. The next field on
which work is now being done is the promotion of industrial safety, and we hope
to be able to put forward proposals on this for your consideration.
I now turn to a series of subjects which in this address I will deal with rather
briefly. This comparative brevity does not reflect on their importance or on the
Government's interest in them. On the contrary, they are all subjects which are
vital to the happy development of our community.
I am concerned that there should be adequate recreational facilities for
young people.
Some of the things that are done for young people in Hong Kong are really
excellent. Apart from what is done by Government departments and schools,
there are 35 major organizations engaged in youth work, and between them they
provide a variety of activities which include clubs, interest groups, holiday and
work camps, youth hostels and award schemes. It is estimated that at any one
time all these together provide activities for more than 1 million young people,
and these are at their peak during the summer programme of activities coordinated through the central committee and district co-ordinating committees.
I was most impressed by what I saw and heard of this programme, and should
like to thank all who contributed to its success. If I might say so I think its
excellence lies in it having been developed to meet the specific needs of Hong
Kong, and not copied from elsewhere. Indeed there is nowhere else in the
world that attempts anything of this sort on this scale. Being characteristic of
Hong Kong, characteristically depends on a marriage of voluntary and
Government effort. Here we have something on which we can build with
confidence.
Similar leadership, co-ordination and support are needed for the promotion
and development of sports. I am sure there will be general
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—18th October 1972 16
[H.E. THE GOVERNOR]
agreement that we should increasingly help to encourage participation and to
raise standards.
The provision of formal recreational facilities such as football and
basketball pitches and playing grounds falls short of what we would wish.
Some of these facilities are equal to or surpass in quality anything else in the
world—for instance the new swimming pool complexes. When the Hung Hom
indoor stadium is completed in 1976 it will be one of the finest of its kind in Asia.
But the need is also for quantity, and I do not think that anyone will claim that
this is yet adequate, admirably though the Urban Council administers its 644
recreational facilities and 272 playgrounds.
Not unnaturally there has been a tendency on the part of the Government to
implement first those parts of the town plans which relate to the basics such as
housing, industry, roads, Government and private offices. But I hope that now,
under the prodding of various organizations in the city areas and the new towns
and the New Territories, progress can now be pushed in redressing the balance
between the basics and those things like playgrounds and recreational areas that
make life pleasanter for everyone and particularly for young people.
The density of population and the value and scarcity of land puts us under a
particular disability over space for recreation in the urban areas. On the other
hand we do have an advantage—which I have not seen equalled in the world—of
magnificent areas of mountain, beach and island exceptionally close to the
centres of population. Granted the shortage of space for recreation in the city
itself, I suggest that we have a special obligation to develop for recreation
adjacent unused rural areas, to make them accessible, and to take all possible
measures to ensure that their amenities are enhanced and not destroyed.
A start has now been made along these lines by acceptance of the five-year
capital works programme of the two committees for recreational development
and nature conservation in the New Territories and Hong Kong Island.
Basically these programmes provide for the phased construction of minor roads
on Hong Kong Island to provide access for maintenance vehicles and the
provision of more facilities including picnic spots. In the New Territories the
programme provides for the construction of a number of country parks to enable
more intensive use to be made of some particularly attractive areas. I regard
these things only as a beginning.
Another indication of your Government's attitude in this field, is the
proposal to widen the South Lantau road along its narrow sections for two-way
traffic. The object of this is to provide proper access to one of the best
recreational areas of Hong Kong.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—18th October 1972 17
It is a short step from plans to preserve and develop our rural amenities to
the campaign to make and keep Hong Kong clean. I believe that all of us in this
Council are enthusiastic supporters of this campaign, and some have played a
leading part in the work of the committee. Everyone in Hong Kong in their
right mind wants the litter to go and the campaign to succeed. On this occasion
I only want to say two things about it. Firstly, I myself and all members of the
Government will do everything in our power to support it, and will continue to
do so until the city is clean again. Secondly, and this is rather a different
thought, when this campaign has succeeded it will have done so by means of a
concerted community effort. I find the implications of this—that is to say this
experiment in the mobilization of responsible citizenship for the benefit of each
neighbourhood—I find this quite as exciting as I do the prospect of having the
city clean. But now we have to put our backs into making the present campaign
succeed.
I turn from litter on the land to pollution in the air and water. I am very
glad to hear that the Advisory Committee on Environmental Pollution, set up in
1971, will be making its first report shortly. We already face serious pollution
in some streams in the New Territories and in parts of the harbour, and the danger
of a rapid advance in pollution is very much in all our minds. In the light of the
committee's report your Government will take a hard look at the problem, and at
the need for legislation and the means to prise this blight from such holds as it
already has and to prevent it contaminating our environment.
The prevalence of narcotics addiction in Hong Kong has kept us in the front
line of a world war against narcotics trafficking and this is now being stepped up
through the initiative mainly of the United Nations and the United States
authorities.
The work done in Hong Kong is acknowledged to be second to none in the
world. But the problem of a high addiction rate remains, together with its
obviously close relationship to some types of crime. It is not increased, but nor
is it reduced in spite of devoted work by many men and women in different
branches of the public service and in voluntary organizations. The problem is
of very long standing, and involves a very large number of addicts and a
worldwide as well as a local network of criminal activity. So far as Hong Kong
is concerned it is wholly or very nearly wholly dependent on supplies from
Thailand.
This problem has very many facets and involves many branches of the
Government service and private agencies. I am sure that the right way to set
about it is first of all to appoint a single senior officer to co-ordinate all aspects of
this work. Such an officer has been appointed to the post of Commissioner for
Narcotics and he is charged
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—18th October 1972 18
[H.E. THE GOVERNOR]
with internal co-ordination and overseas liaison. He is already reviewing
treatment and rehabilitation methods, including preliminary experiments in
methadone maintenance. We hope to see some progress next year, but we
expect a long and hard haul.
I am well aware of honourable Members' concern at the growth of crime,
and that their concern is well founded. The facts are that over the last 4 years
key crime has increased by 40% and violent crime—that is to say murder,
manslaughter, serious assaults and robbery—by 135%, and that the proportion of
young people committing these crimes has steadily increased.
There is no subject which I have discussed more widely since my arrival
here, or on which I have listened to the opinions of a wider range of society.
I have already outlined to honourable Members plans for advances in
conditions of housing, education and social welfare, and I have emphasized the
importance the Government attaches to more extensive recreational facilities for
young people. Many people have urged on me that such measures should be
undertaken because they would reduce crime. But I should make it clear that I
have advocated them on their merits and for their own sake. If they have an
effect on crime well and good—it will be a bonus. But in the short term we
must look to other methods.
Before outlining these I would like to make some general observations.
First, as one wise person remarked to me, nobody commits a crime which
he believes will be detected. Deterrence by fear of detection is probably the
most potent weapon we can bring to bear.
Secondly, the most socially close-knit of our neighbourhoods are those
freest from crime. Amidst all our other preoccupations over rehousing and
urban renewal we must not lose sight of the sense of safety and peace of mind
that can only be built up by personal associations in a neighbourhood over a long
period of time and which can be lost so quickly if the inhabitants are dispersed.
Conversely, I believe that the creation of a sense of neighbourhood responsibility
is not only a good thing in itself, but also that it is highly relevant to the
prevention of crime.
Thirdly, as Hong Kong gets richer so there is more to steal. It is always
foolish to dispose of valuables in a way that invites theft, but in our present
circumstances to do so, and to rely on an insurance company to make good any
loss, is totally irresponsible and an active
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—18th October 1972 19
encouragement to crime. Just as soft targets encourage crime, so I believe it
might deter if they could progressively be stiffened.
Fourthly, the punishment of a convicted criminal must be adequate to deter.
This is rightly a matter for the courts.
Finally, the role of the public, the third party, the stander-by, is vital. If the
criminal expects the public to be neutral or indifferent he is encouraged. On the
other hand he can very well be deterred by the certainty of a hue and cry. To
this extent it is a harsh fact that a community gets the crime rate it deserves.
But I accept that it is also the duty of a government to do everything it can to
help and encourage and lead its citizens to play their part in their own protection.
So much for generalities, now for specifics.
With regard to punishment we have introduced two major changes. The
first is the right of the Crown to appeal to the Supreme Court against sentences it
considers inadequate. It is too soon to judge its effect as the first appeals under
the new law have only recently been lodged. But if it is correct that more
certainty as to the level of punishment would be a deterrent, this law should
provide us with a useful instrument.
Secondly, in response to the Chief Justice's proposal, we have established a
Detention Centre for young people. This new form of punishment for young
offenders has been designed to be short but rather sharp. The Commissioner of
Prisons has devoted much thought to this new project, and has brought it into
operation with extraordinary speed. We must now wait and see the results: in
view of their significance for meeting our problem of young criminals, these
results are being very carefully monitored.
While these measures do stiffen our legal armoury we have also been giving
thought to further steps. For my part I think there is considerably more that
could be done, and I hope that the Attorney General will be able to say
something about this fairly soon.
But I am sure that the strongest deterrent to the criminal lies in an efficient,
numerous and visible police force in the streets, working in collaboration with a
public that gives it all the support in its power.
Our police force is one of the finest in the world, and don't let us ever forget
it, but it is at present well under requirement. We have therefore considerably
increased its pay and drastically reviewed recruiting methods. I hope that taken
together these steps will assist in bringing the Force up to strength. If they do
not, other steps will have to be taken.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—18th October 1972 20
[H.E. THE GOVERNOR]
Meanwhile it is obviously essential that every man available should be on
the beat. The Commissioner has accordingly undertaken a far-reaching review
to devise means of releasing trained policemen from work which could just as
well be done by civilians, so that they may spend their time on law enforcement.
This should soon show results.
Excellent as the record of the Force has been, it is a fact that many of its
members have no more than a primary school education, and that before entering
the police training school they have been for several years in some form of
employment and under influences that may be inimical to their subsequent duties
as policemen. The expansion of secondary education should produce in due
course a situation in which new recruits will all have had an education up to the
age of 14. But we believe that for young men entering the Force to have the
necessary educational background and moral fibre there is no substitute for two
years in a residential college, where they may acquire not only the necessary
education but also absorb the sense of duty and morality that will make them
accepted by the public as their friends and leaders in the fight against crime.
We are therefore going to establish a police school to provide two years training
for 600 young people in the 16-18 age group intending to enter the Force. In
view of the urgency of the situation we will not wait for several years until the
school can open on its permanent site. Instead we plan to start it next year in
temporary quarters catering for about 300 boys. I hope that it may be quickly
expanded to provide for a majority of recruits. But this too is a long term
measure.
I have one new and immediate proposal. I have been impressed by three
strands in this perplexing problem. First, I am impressed by the demand for
local watch forces, deeply rooted as this concept is in the traditions of the
population. Secondly, I entirely accept the Government's insistence that law
enforcement officers must be policemen under police discipline. There must be
no private armies. Thirdly, this year's experiment of using the auxiliary police
in permanent support of the regular force has been outstandingly successful.
We now propose to weave together these three strands and completely to change
the concept of the auxiliary police from principally that of an emergency force to
that of a permanent part-time constabulary to combat crime, and substantially to
expand it for this purpose.
It will of course still be available to give the good service in an emergency
that it has given in the past. But in normal times we propose to deploy it in its
new role on a neighbourhood basis, so that men will go on the beat near the areas in
which they live, and which they know. In this way we hope that the auxiliaries
will not only be a standing citizen's volunteer army in the fight against crime, but
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—18th October 1972 21
will form an invaluable link between the inhabitants of their own
neighbourhoods, and the regular police force.
This scheme has been held up pending legislation, which will shortly be
ready, to provide for substantial increases in the pay of the police auxiliaries. If
this is approved we will initiate an immediate recruiting campaign in which we
will enlist the assistance of the Kaifongs and the Multi-storey Building Owners'
Corporations in the city, and the Heung Yee Kuk and Rural Committees in the
New Territories, and indeed any people of goodwill in each neighbourhood.
Under this new concept a neighbourhood that provides recruits will be the safer
for it. This additional and personal link between the police and the inhabitants
of each neighbourhood must be fostered and imaginatively and vigorously used,
and thus encourage people to give the active support to the police that is so badly
needed, and which could in itself go far to deter the criminal.
I make no apology for speaking at such length about crime; I know it is very
much in all our minds. The causes are just as complex and baffling in Hong
Kong as they are in other great cities in the world, and it woud be foolish to
expect a quick or easy cure. But what I have said will at least have shown you
that on this issue your Government is in the ring and with its sleeves rolled up.
It has adopted new tactics in the past year of which I have only mentioned some,
and will now introduce others which I hope will commend themselves to you as
both practical and imaginative. But I can assure you that we will continue to
experiment with new measures or to reinforce old ones until this creeping
menace is mastered.
I have spoken at some length on the broad objectives in certain key fields in
which I think the time is ripe to plan for the years ahead.
I have also put before you my deep concern at the growth of crime; for, as I
said at the beginning of this address, a sense of personal safety is one of the two
prerequisites of the very continuance of our community.
Now, in conclusion, I turn to the other prerequisite: that is the
maintenance of a high rate of economic expansion. It is on this that our
prospects for social progress depend, because the yield from our tax system must
be sufficient to finance the public services and, in large measure at least, our
capital works programmes. Our extreme dependence on exports and imports
means that our very survival, let alone the rate at which our economy expands
year by year, is subject to external influences over which we have little or no
control.
Of course there are factors within our control which are vitally important to
our competitive position in world markets. For instance, the resourcefulness of
our people, the Government's ability to create and preserve an environment
conducive to individual enterprise, high
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—18th October 1972 22
[H.E. THE GOVERNOR]
productivity and profitable investment, and also, of course, our monetary and
fiscal policies. But the fact of the matter is that it is on the level of business
activity in our overseas markets, and on the absence of discriminatory restrictions
against our exports, that our continuing prosperity primarily depends.
These two factors are to some extent interrelated. Certainly high
unemployment and recessionary forces in the economies of the United States,
Europe and the United Kingdom in 1971 led to a slowing down in the rate of
growth of world trade and so in the demand for our exports. At the same time,
a number of countries have asked us to restrain exports of our non-cotton textiles
and have backed their requests with threats of import restrictions if we did not
concede. For instance, during the past year we have had to agree to
comprehensive restraints on our exports of man-made fibre textiles to the United
States and the United Kingdom. I cannot accept that the reasons for these
requests have been entirely justified on economic grounds. Nor can I accept
that the terms of the restraint agreements finally negotiated after much hard
bargaining have been entirely satisfactory to Hong Kong—though I believe that
they were the best we could hope for in the politico/economic circumstances of
those countries at the time.
On the other hand, I must stress that the rules of the GATT, which have
governed the international trading system over the past 20 years, have served
Hong Kong's interests well. The gradual easing of restrictions on trade which
they have brought about over this period has led to an enormous expansion of
world trade, and with it of our own exports. With this experience behind us, I
think it is right for us to look to the hopeful signs for the future. And I submit
that there are at least two grounds for hope. In the first place, the major
industrial countries have agreed on a new initiative in trade policy next year
under the auspices of the GATT; and, at the same time, the newly constituted
Committee of Twenty of the International Monetary Fund will be working on the
reform of the international monetary system. Parallel trade and monetary
negotiations should make progress on each front easier; after all one major object
of the reform of the international monetary system is to facilitate the flow of
trade. Secondly, and of more immediate relevance, there are now signs of
renewed, though moderate expansion of business activity in North America and
Western Europe which is expected to lead to an acceleration of the growth of
world trade in 1973. This revival seems to be already gathering pace in North
America, the destination of 45% of our exports.
However, in planning for our development over the next decade we must
bear in mind our dependence on these external factors, and
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—18th October 1972 23
our lack of control over them. It is therefore only common prudence that we
maintain financial flexibility. In other words, let us set ourselves targets which
we think right and which we can justify and let us plan for these, but at the same
time it would be wrong to get irrevocably locked into them however desirable
they may be. This is because in the final analysis our competitive position in
export markets, and the rate of investment in our industries, must always have
priority. It is on these that all else depends.
However, if I am correct in my confidence in our trading prospects, both in
the immediate future and in the longer term, then we can be similarly confident
of the rate of growth of investment in Hong Kong and of yields from taxes. So
I am hopeful that the recurrent and capital revenue over the rest of this decade
will be sufficient to enable us to finance the steady expansion of our services and
the works programmes which I have outlined, and which I regard as so necessary
to the development and stability of this community.
My mood therefore is one of optimism. Tensions in the Western Pacific
have been reduced by a statesmanship which we all applaud, and which we know
to be in Hong Kong's interest. Anglo-Chinese relations are now once more on a
stable and friendly basis. This too is to Hong Kong's advantage. For the rest,
we have good hopes of an expansion in world trade; we have drawn up plans for
improving the condition of our population, and there is a fair prospect of our
having the means to carry them out within a reasonable time-span. With the
support of honourable Members I feel sure we can make good use of the
opportunity this offers.