HIS EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR: —Honourable Members, last year my
address to some extent took the form of first impressions of Hong Kong in my
unfamiliar role of Governor.
The year that has followed has been one of intense activity, and it has been
shot through with important and sometimes dramatic events. There has been
the rise and fall of the stock market; the sterling float and the effect on the value
of our reserves; the cleaning of Hong
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 3
Kong in a dramatic campaign; the reprieve, on the advice of Her Majesty's
Government, of a convicted murderer against the express advice of the Governor
in Council and the wishes of the over-whelming majority of the population; the
mounting of an intense effort to come to grips with the problem of rising crime;
the move to prosecute Godber, his escape and the harsh light then thrown on the
whole problem of corruption in Hong Kong; discrimination and the threat of
discrimination against Hong Kong in generalized preference schemes; shortage
of raw materials; disruptive changes in the parities of our major trading partners;
sharp rises in prices of imported goods. I mention these as some, and only
some, of the events that have pre-occupied us in the course of this eventful year.
In this succession of events it has been the duty of your Government with
the support of the Executive Council and honourable Members, to direct things
within its power as seemed best for the interest of Hong Kong. But it has been
our constant concern not to be diverted from the mainstream of our social
policies as outlined last year and endorsed by this Council.
These required the formulation of long-term plans to break finally the
makeshift conditions forced on Hong Kong by the influx of population in the '50s
and the '60s. This was not only because I believed such an approach to be right
in itself, and to accord with the advice of honourable Members and the wishes of
the public, but also because I was convinced that in many respects current
conditions can only be accepted if the public knows that their Government is
sincerely determined to improve them and within a reasonable timescale. So on
no account have we been prepared to permit the pressing pre-occupations of
today to divert us from long term measures to achieve the essential conditions of
an acceptable tomorrow.
It is with these long term measures that I start.
First of all housing. Of all these social programmes it is the biggest.
Everything that I have seen in the city and read at my desk during this second
year in Hong Kong confirms my conclusion that the inadequacy and scarcity of
housing, and all that this implies, and the harsh situations that result from it, is
one of the major and most constant sources of friction and unhappiness between
Government and the population. It also has implications for our twin problems
of crime and corruption. It is therefore vital that we press on with our target of
self-contained homes for all in a reasonable environment, by the fiscal year
1982-83.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 4
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
The new Housing Authority and Housing Department are addressing
themselves to this gigantic task with enthusiasm and imagination. They have
inherited a lean period, but they aim to work up to a plateau of production in
1976-77 of new homes for 200,000 a year and thereafter to maintain it. They
must do this without making excessive demands on the labour market. Later in
the debate the Secretary for Housing will be speaking about this and other
problems facing the new Authority. These include, depressingly, the need for
resite areas to tide over the lean years the Authority has inherited.
The Authority indeed faces many important problems of day to day
administration. But we must never forget that nearly all of these are symptoms
of the dominant disease-scarcity of housing. The only sure cure is therefore to
end the scarcity. So the primary task of the New Authority and Housing
Department must be to build fast, to build well and above all to keep on building.
The new 5-year plan for social welfare, which I referred to last year, has
been published together with a White Paper and both came into effect on the 1st
of April. The first draft was the product of a mixed working party of official
members and of unofficial social workers. This was published as a green paper,
and after the views of this Council had been taken an opportunity was provided
for the public and the voluntary agencies to express their views on the plan.
These were taken into account in the final White Paper which now embodies the
plan. I recapitulate because I am sure that this process of consultation will
commend itself to honourable Members as the right way to handle plans of this
sort.
The plan will now be reviewed each year so as to provide a constant 5-year
projection. Implementation of the plan has started well. The Secretary for
Social Services will be going into details later in the debate and I only wish to
refer to one or two points. The new Institute for Social Work Training has now
been established and opened last month. I do hope it will be dynamic. It will
provide the community with an increasing and badly needed supply of trained
social workers. But I hope that it will also have a major impact on the lines
along which social work in Hong Kong develops. It should be both a forcing
house for new ideas, and a forum for the analysis and exchange of practical
experience.
I should also like to make a special mention of Community Development
and Youth projects. The Executive Council has approved,
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 5
subject to the provision of funds by Finance Committee, a 5-year plan for the
provision of 14 community centres and 89 community halls, youth centres and
estate welfare centres aimed at bringing community facilities within the reach of
all sectors of the community.
It has also approved, on the same terms, provision of additional services
involving the progressive appointment of a network of officers to promote
community and youth activities in all districts in Hong Kong.
I think that these schemes could become of very great importance. They
can make a special contribution to a society as young as this. They touch an
age group particularly vulnerable to criminal influence. Moreover I believe that
in the circumstances of Hong Kong provision of community facilities is an
essential step on the road to responsible citizenship and civic sense.
I now turn to the third of the long-term plans announced last year, that for
the expansion of secondary education. This was to address ourselves forthwith
to the provision of 184,000 additional assisted places in forms 1 - 3 and 55,000
additional places in forms 4 - 5 so as to offer 3 years secondary education to all
in the 12-14 year age group, and to double the percentage in the full 5-year
course leading to a Certificate of Education.
I asked the Board of Education to let me have their recommendations on the
time-scale within which these targets could be achieved, and on any changes in
the educational system which should be introduced. To undertake this task the
Board of Education was reconstituted under the Chairmanship of Mr Woo, and
with a membership of great distinction and authority. I have seen the Board’s
report and it is a most able and valuable document. It confirms that these
targets could be achieved within a 10 year plan, that is to say, by 1984, and lays
down an interim target of places for 80 % of the 12 - 14 year age group by 1981.
It recommends that one fifth of the 3-year places should be in pre-vocational
schools and that one third of the places in the 5-year course should be in
secondary technical schools. The report also recommends that to meet the
necessary expansion in the teaching services a fourth college of education should
be established as soon as possible, if necessary in temporary accommodation,
and that the universities should consider further expansion of their present
facilities for graduate training in education.
I have been interested to see recent discussion on the role of English in our
schools. The Board has quite separately recommended
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 6
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
that Chinese should become the usual medium of instruction for lower forms in
secondary schools. In keeping with this the Board also recommends that the
early years of secondary education should as far as possible be based on a
common core of instruction irrespective of the type of school.
As we have already achieved free primary education, the Board was invited
to advise on the extent to which secondary education should be free, in the
present circumstances of Hong Kong. The Board endorsed existing
Government policy that no child should be denied a place in a Government or
assisted secondary school on financial grounds, and concluded that within the
present fee structure and feeremission system there is adequate provision to
ensure this aim, and that in the present circumstances of Hong Kong there is no
compelling need at present to provide free education in the lower secondary
ranges for those able to pay the highly subsidized fees. The Board nevertheless
recommended that the possibility of free education should be kept under regular
review.
I am extremely grateful to the Board for the work they have done. Far be
it from me to comment on it. It is most reassuring to have this corpus of expert
opinion as a basis for planning the further expansion of secondary education.
The Government proposes to follow a similar procedure with this report as with
that on the 5-year Plan for Social Welfare last year. It will table the report in
this Council forthwith as a Green Paper. After honourable Members have
expressed their views, an adequate period will be allowed for the public and
interested bodies to comment. In the light of this discussion a White Paper will
be submitted for consideration by the Executive and Legislative Councils
embodying the final phased plan for reaching our targets. I might add that in
examining the Board's targets and proposed timescale it will be our object to see
if these could not somehow be improved on. I am sure that the Board would
endorse this approach. I also hope that with these basic plans drafted the Board
will be able to turn its attention to a thorough review of the examination system.
The Director of Education will be giving details later in the debate of the
progress made in his department this year.
I know of the great interest of honourable members in the provision of
technical education. It is a fine form of education in itself, and the capacity of
Hong Kong to adapt to changing industrial and commercial conditions greatly
depends on the programme of expansion
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 7
of technical education. This programme has been pursued with considerable
energy, and the present forecast is that in addition to Morrison Hill, technical
institutes at Kwai Chung and Kwun Tong will be opened in September 1975, and
at Cheung Sha Wan and San Po Kong in September 1976 and September 1977
respectively. We will keep the need for further expansion under careful review.
This may well be necessary but we would like to see the degree of support from
both the public and industry before taking further firm decisions.
I have little to add to what I said last year about tertiary education. The
University and Polytechnic Grants Committee are currently discussing the
universities’ plan for the forthcoming quadrennium covering the years 1974-78.
These plans should provide an expansion in the two universities, from a capacity
of 6,000 to one of 8,400 at least, by 1978.
The Polytechnic is making good progress towards its target of 8,000 full
time and 20,000 part-time students by 1978, and I would like to congratulate the
Board and the staff of the Polytechnic on their success in launching this new
venture. In combination all these measures provide for a tripling of facilities in
tertiary education by 1978.
I now turn to our medical and health services-services of which we are
justly very proud. It is no small achievement in a high density community such
as this to be able to point to the consistently falling levels in the overall death rate,
in infant and maternal mortality and in the incidence of infectious diseases.
Since we are reaching the end of the 10-year period of development set out
in the 1964 White Paper, the Department of Medical and Health Services drew
up comprehensive plans for meeting the needs of the next ten years. We have
followed the same procedure over these plans as with those for the expansion of
secondary education. A Medical Development Advisory Committee with
experienced and authoritative membership was set up under the chairmanship of
Sir Albert RODRIGUES. The department's plans were then submitted to it as a
basis for recommendations as to what our targets should be for 1983, how we
should proceed to achieve them, and what demands this would make in terms of
money and trained personnel. The committee has completed and submitted its
report, and this will be laid before this Council at our next meeting as a green
paper. The committee's recommendations and any views expressed on them by
the public and professional bodies will be studied very carefully by the
Government. In the light of this consideration early next year we shall lay before
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 8
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
the Executive Council and this Council a firm programme for development over
the course of the next ten years.
I have counted some twenty main recommendations in the RODRIGUES’ report.
I have time today to refer only to a few. Next year we shall reach and pass the
target of 4.25 hospital per one thousand of population set in 1964. The
Advisory Committee now recommend a new and higher target of 5.5 beds to
each thousand members of the population by 1983. This would involve
providing an additional 8,250 beds over and above the 3,000 already in the
pipeline. That this is a formidable target neither the committee nor the
Government doubt, particularly at a time when the scale of development in other
fields will be making great demands on our resources. Clearly we are obliged
to consider with care the various possible methods by which the target may be
reached, and we must decide quickly. Well will need some more hospitals, but
we will also have to contrive the fullest use of beds already available.
The report warns us that by the end of the decade we will need each year
100 more doctors than are being produced at present; that a dental school should
be established so as to provide about 60 dentists each year from 1980 onwards;
and that we should be planning now a further training school capable of taking
150 to 200 student nurses a year. These recommendations have far reaching
implications for our universities and involve very considerable cost. In view of
the great time lag involved between planning any new medical training facilities
and completion of the training of the first students in them, we will need to think
both fast and clearly. On these matters the Government will want to take the
advice of the University and Polytechnic Grants Committee.
I am extremely grateful to Sir Albert and his Committee. Like the Board
of Education his committee were confronted with a formidable mass of technical
and administrative detail, and with admirable speed were able to reduce this to a
clear and valuable report. This will be the basis for our Medical and Health
Services in the 80’s.
Apart from these important long term plans, the only other subject in the
medical field I wish to mention is that of family planning. This month the
Government begins to share with the voluntary agencies responsibility for
developing and encouraging family planning. Over the next twelve months the
services presently run by the Family Planning Association in Government clinics
will become part of the Government
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 9
service, staffed by Government officers and supported and financed directly by
the Government. This will make it possible for the Family Planning
Association and other agencies to concentrate their efforts in the areas not served
by Government clinics. These measures are of great importance because all our
efforts to improve the quality of life in Hong Kong could be frustrated by
excessive natural increase, just as they could be by excessive immigration, and
we face a significant increase in the size of the child-bearing age-group.
So honourable Members the long-term plans for housing and social welfare
are thus firmly established, and those for education and medical and health
services are far advanced. Each year each projection will be re-examined and
rolled forward, so that we will continue to have a clear long term view of what
must be done. We thus now have four pillars on which the future well-being of
our community can be built. The concern of your Government must now be to
ensure that the plans do not slip and that they are carried out with the vigour that
the community demands.
The elaboration of these plans across so wide a field, and more or less
simultaneously, has placed a considerable strain on the machinery of
Government and I am indeed proud of the response of the public service to the
challenge involved. I very much hope that the progressive implementation of
the recommendations of the consultants, Messrs McKinsey, to strengthen the
machinery and planning processes of Government, will eliminate the need for
any repetition of such a mammoth operation.
Since the consultants' departure the Colonial Secretariat has been reorganized into six policy and two resource branches, the former being based on
six groups of programmes, that is to say economic services, environment, home
affairs and information, housing, security, and social services.
Now that seven of the eight Secretaries have been named, and are in post,
our aim is to develop and implement a workable and reliable Government
management system based on the consultants' recommendations, and tailored to
our own evolving requirements. Such a system must embrace the assessment of
our needs and the formulation of policies required to meet them; it will also
entail the implementation of policies in the light of our resources of finance,
manpower and land, and the monitoring of their effectiveness.
To do all this, we shall need to train and develop the expertise of our own
staff in the techniques of modem corporate management and
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 10
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
to do so as quickly as possible. To assist in this we have secured the services,
on secondment, of two of the staff of the Greater London Council experienced in
these techniques.
All these endeavours, which are now in hand, should facilitate the effective
realization of the far-reaching plans of which I have spoken. But, just as
important, they should also facilitate and expedite the more mundane work of the
Government.
With these major basic programmes and administrative reforms in hand, I
believe the time has come to give an additional thrust in two main areas: the
first is recreation, leisure and sport; and the second is that broad complex of
inter-related problems which might be described under the heading of traffic and
transport, land policy and pollution.
Let me start with recreation. With rising standards of living, and time
available to be spent on more than just a struggle for existence, facilities for
recreation have taken on a new and urgent significance. They are no longer
luxuries but essential parts of our social infrastructure which, I suggest to you,
we would neglect at our peril. I am conscious of the excellent work already
being done by a wide variety of organizations, both Government and
Government-aided, and privately financed. But the machinery for a coordinated drive has hitherto been lacking.
We will therefore set up a Council for Recreation and Sport under the
chairmanship of the Secretary for Home Affairs. This will bring together a
high-level group of persons with special experience of the public and private
organizations controlling the main recreational facilities and services in existence.
So as to make it effective and provide it with some administrative muscle it will
be equipped with its own secretariat. It will be the chosen channel for advice to
Government in this field. In particular it will advise on how to expand facilities,
maximize their use, increase supervision of activities in them, and advise the
Government on the extent and direction of financial assistance to amateur sport.
It will also make recommendations on any special services and facilities it
considers necessary to meet the leisure time needs of young people. I trust that
these proposals will commend themselves to honourable Members and that they
will agree that adequate funds should be made available to implement the
Council’s recommendations. I hope this Council may bring new purpose, new
impetus and new thinking into what is being done in this field.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 11
The Council will also include within its purview the 5-year Programme of
Recreational Development and Nature Conservation, which was announced last
year. This is now beginning to get into its stride, and to pass from the stage of
planning to construction.
In addition to country parks and reserves already planned on Hong Kong
Island, Tolo Harbour, Shing Mun, Lion Rock and Pak Sha Wan, two areas which
are particularly rich in recreational opportunities are Lantau Island and the Sai
Kung peninsula. To enable the Government to decide how best to utilise these
special opportunities a comprehensive planning study was commissioned from
consultants and their recommendations are expected in about a year's time.
These plans should provide a framework for the development of major holiday
centres for our own people and for visitors, as well as for the informal enjoyment
of the countryside and beaches.
I attach importance to this programme. Though recreational facilities in
the old areas will be greatly expanded, the sheer lack of space makes it likely that
they will always fall short of what we would wish for so large a concentration of
population. It is therefore essential that properly equipped recreational areas be
opened up in the mountains and beaches that surround the city, with proper road
access, and staff to keep them clean and attractive and to help the public to do so,
and thus ensure that everyone gets the maximum benefit out of them.
To those of us who are urban in our habits this programme may seem
peripheral but to my mind it is central. The mountains and the beaches are for
the many what the golf course and the yacht are for the few. And if these
magnificent natural facilities are to be enjoyed to the full and not to be destroyed
by misuse, they must be catered for and administered just as much as, say, the
playgrounds and swimming complexes in the urban areas.
Another wide field to which we must now address ourselves with even
greater effort—and I do not decry what has already been done and is being
done—is that which might be described under the heading of traffic, transport,
land policy and pollution. They are inter-related and intractable subjects which
are as hard to solve in Hong Kong as in any other of the great conurbations, and
rendered more difficult by the great concentration of population and the
limitations of space. I am sure that the drafting of sound and comprehensive
policies will be greatly facilitated by the appointment of a single senior officer,
the Secretary for the Environment, to evolve and co-ordinate programmes. He
is, I am satisfied, undaunted by this daunting responsibility. He will be
outlining his approach himself at a later stage in this debate.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 12
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
The most dramatic single item in this group of subjects, though by no means
necessarily the most important, is the mass transit project, and I confess I do
prefer to call it the underground railway. The negotiation of the contract is in
the competent hands of the Financial Secretary and the Steering Group under the
direction of the Executive Council and I have nothing to add about the course of
the negotiations today.
But even when the underground railway is completed the bus will continue
as the major public passenger carrier. It is therefore essential that the quality of
the bus services should be steadily improved to a point at which they are readily
accepted, at least at peak times, as a satisfactory alternative to the car, the taxi or
the public light bus. Discussions are being held with the bus companies on the
best way of ensuring this.
As a basis for an overall transport policy, a green paper will be tabled
shortly. The paper will present an overall policy, a composition of restraints and
improvements designed to keep Hong Kong on the move. I am sure that
honourable Members will wish to consider and debate on the propositions in it.
But certainly a clear-cut long term policy is essential.
Traffic and transport are of course inter-connected with the problems of onand off-street parking and also to some extent with that of use of street space by
hawkers, and consequently with the progressive planning and provision of more
adequate markets.
It will be the responsibility of the Secretary for the Environment to ensure
the composition and coordination of long-term plans covering all these difficult
inter-related issues.
He will also share responsibility with the Secretary for Economic Services
for land policy. I think honourable Members will agree that it is time we took a
hard look at this. If the standard of living of our people is to continue to rise
our economy must continue to expand. We must ensure it does not get stuck on
a plateau, either through lack of suitable land for development at reasonable
prices, or through any failure of the system of competitive bidding for lots to
attract particular types of new industry which would contribute to the expansion
and diversification of our economy.
The Government has been examining its industrial land policy and we
conclude that some revision may be desirable.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 13
You may recall that in December of last year I indicated that the
Government had decided to make some sites available for special industries for
sale on a restricted user basis. The first such site on Tsing Yi Island was sold in
April of this year. Honourable Members might like to know that several other
sites may be sold on this basis in the near future.
The shortage of land for private development is apparent. A determined
search has therefore been made for large blocks of unformed land that could be
made available quickly for private development. The Secretary for the
Environment will be explaining the results later in the debate.
For the rest there is not so much an absolute shortage of land as lack of
access communications that make land attractive to developers. It is against
this background that we are pressing on with a second tunnel to Sha Tin, and a
motorway to Castle Peak, and both in due course will open up other substantial
areas for development, as will the new bridge to Tsing Yi Island, in itself a
monument to the farsightedness of our entrepreneurs. But of course the greatest
untouched land asset at present is Lantau. Even if, as I think should be the case,
the bulk of this large island were reserved for recreation purposes there is still
ample room for badly needed additional sites for industry and residential
development. It is against this background that we are once more investigating
the possibility of constructing a bridge.
The new-style Urban Council has now been inaugurated under a new
Ordinance and with full financial autonomy.
Might I say what a happy event this was for all of us, and how much we
wish the Council success in its very important work.
I should like to say a separate and special word about the Keep Hong Kong
Clean Campaign. It was the brain child and special responsibility of the Urban
Council and the Urban Services Department, but in the end most departments of
Government, of course including the Police, were involved, as were very large
numbers of the public. Its success was manifest. The streets became clean.
24,000 tons of the accumulated rubbish of decades was removed. In the course
of it, in the urban area, no less than 64 acres, 2.8 million square feet, comprising
some 137 sites were transformed from rubbish dumps into gardens and play areas.
Hong Kong was the sweeter for the change. We have also all gained confidence
in our ability to tackle great problems of community interest if only we organize
ourselves properly and all pull together.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 14
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
I am delighted that this spring clean has been accompanied by great
improvements to our parks, and by the planting of many new trees and shrubs in
public places. I am sure that in spite of the difficulties Hong Kong can be both
clean and green.
This year I will say little myself about labour matters, and thus leave the
Secretary for Social Services to speak for himself.
Some progress has been made this year with industrial safety regulations,
but there is a long way to go and the rate of industrial accidents remains
alarmingly high.
The introduction of the Labour Tribunal has proved an immediate success.
The principal piece of labour legislation we propose for this session is a
major addition to the Ordinance to provide for severance payments to workers
whose services are terminated through no fault of their own.
Before leaving the subject of labour, I would like to apologize for the delay
in setting up the Hong Kong Training Council, to continue the valuable work
started by its predecessor, the Industrial Training Advisory Committee. The
Council is now established and faces a major challenge. I am sure that it will
meet it.
And now a word about the New Territories. I am conscious of the concern
of some honourable Members that the Government should be more even handed
as between the urban areas and the New Territories in the programmes it
undertakes. This concern reflects the views of the Heung Yee Kuk.
The large social programmes, housing, education, medical services and
social welfare, will of course benefit the New Territories as much as, or even
more than the old urban areas, and will contribute substantially to the standard of
life and amenities in the New Territories.
But the rural areas of the New Territories present a special problem. In
them, in particular, we are faced with the phenomenon of rural slums. Their
elimination involves complex problems because of the mix of small factories, pig,
poultry and vegetable farms and residential huts that comprise them. However
a pilot scheme is now being worked out for the development of an area near
Yuen Long.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 15
Last year I mentioned that there was a requirement for better housing in the
rural New Territories. What is needed on present assessments is, additional,
decent housing for something like 250,000. Work on the planning of the estates
has started, but it will be one or two years before the first of them is ready for
occupation. As an interim step, attention is being paid to improving the
conditions in the rural areas wherever possible. Examples of these measures are
the two new housing estates, financed mainly by charitable donations from
America and Canada, and opened this year at Cheung Chau and Sai Kung; the
new small-house policy introduced at the end of last year; the planned provision
of over a thousand items of small public works over the next three years: and
the doubling of cleansing and sanitation staff over the last three years.
I should add that in re-organizing the machinery of Government it was
always accepted that once the new Secretaries were in position, it would be
necessary to adjust the position and status of the District Commissioner to ensure
that the special requirements of the New Territories were to receive the
consideration they deserved. We expect to make an announcement about this
before Mr BRAY’s successor takes over.
There has been considerable public discussion about our present laws on
gambling and the view has been expressed that these laws are too restrictive, are
unenforceable, and should be relaxed. On the other hand, there are those who
sincerely believe that changes of this nature would be harmful and that it would
be wrong for Government to relax the present laws. Having considered both
sides the Government has decided to make only a limited move. Legislation
will be introduced to permit the Royal Hong Kong Jockey Club to extend its
totalizator betting facilities on Hong Kong horse races to premises outside the
race course itself. We propose to do no more than this at the moment.
And now I come to the subject of corruption which has troubled us all so
much in recent months, has been so much in the news, and has done so much to
denigrate Hong Kong in the eyes of the world.
I had been aware of suspicions of high level graft as well as of a certainty of
extensive low level corruption. But I had also been impressed by the stringent
provisions of the new Prevention of Bribery Ordinance. I also was aware of the
increasing efforts of the Anti-Corruption Branch of the police despite tremendous
difficulties. It has
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 16
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
of course been the practice in the United Kingdom and United Kingdom
dependencies, that corruption, like other forms of crime, should be handled by
the police, and that when a corrupt act is alleged against a policeman it should
still be investigated by policemen but from a different or a specialized unit.
That has been the situation here, except that the Anti-Corruption Branch has
worked to the direction of a target committee largely civilian in composition.
Though fully aware of the disquiet in many circles about corruption, and about
the machinery we had here to deal with it, I wished time to see what results the
branch could produce under the new legislation.
The escape of Godber was a shocking experience for all of us, extremely
frustrating for the police who had worked so carefully and so secretly to bring
him to court. There was great public disquiet about the circumstances of his
escape, and this clearly called for an immediate and searching enquiry by a man
of the highest calibre and public stature. But I thought it right to charge the
same man with reporting also on the workings of our anti-corruption laws and
the machinery to enforce them, and thus provide an authoritative and
dispassionate view of our situation as a basis for action. This has been done,
and I should like to congratulate Sir Alastair BLAIR-KERR on the thorough and
forthright way he has performed this considerable public service, with a
minimum of soft soap and a maximum of objectivity. Both his reports have
been published in full. The public had a right to know, but in any case when
something has gone wrong the air is usually soonest cleared by frank
acknowledgement of the facts.
After Godber’s escape two things quickly became apparent. The first was
that suspicion of corruption on a more extensive scale was better-grounded than I
had personally realized. The second was that the men responsible for
investigating and prosecuting corruption felt that in spite of the new teeth in the
Prevention of Bribery Ordinance, they still lacked the legal weapons and to some
extent other facilities necessary to get the results they and the public wanted and
the situation required. These points have now been substantiated in Sir Alastair
BLAIR-KERR’s report.
This calls for new measures.
With regard to legal weapons, on the advice of the Executive Council, the
Government generally accepts the objectives of Sir Alastair’s
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 17
recommendations. They are being examined in detail in consultation with the
Foreign and Commonwealth Office. Clearly, such drastic changes in
established principles of law must be looked at very carefully indeed, but we
hope that legislation can be introduced shortly before this Council. Where
appropriate, discussions with the main staff associations will be held as some of
the changes suggested to civil service regulations will be controversial and staff
associations will, quite naturally, seek to protect the interests of their members.
But I am sure that the service as a whole will accept that grave situations call for
unusual measures, and that honest officers, the huge majority, have nothing to
fear and indeed everything to gain.
Sir Alastair left open the question whether the unit to investigate corruption
should continue to be part of the police or not. But he implied a personal
preference for separation. It is no criticism of the police, or of the devoted work
of the Anti-Corruption Branch, to say that I agree with him. I believe that it is
quite wrong, in the special circumstances of Hong Kong, that the police, as a
force, should carry the whole responsibility for action in this difficult and elusive
field. In the past this responsibility has carried with it for many, the implication
that the existence of corruption was the fault of the police. As we all know it is
nothing of the sort. Outside the public service it is a widespread social problem,
and inside it corruption exists in several departments of which the police is only
one. Moreover I think the situation calls for an organization, led by men of high
rank and status, which can devote its whole time to the eradication of this evil.
A further and conclusive argument is that public confidence is very much
involved. Clearly the public would have more confidence in a unit that was
entirely independent, and separate from any department of the Government,
including the police.
We have therefore decided, on the advice of the Executive Council, to set up
a separate Anti-Corruption Commission under a civilian Commissioner. My
intention is that the latter’s independence should be established by his position
being apart from the civil service in the same way as that of a judge or, say, the
Chairman of the Public Services Commission.
He will have under him an operations unit and what I might call a civil or
preventive section. The operations unit will in due course take over the
functions of the Anti-Corruption Branch of the police.
Its staff will be selected by the Commissioner for Anti-Corruption and his
Director of Operations.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 18
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
Combatting corruption will not just be a matter of investigation and
prosecution. As Sir Alastair has pointed out, there is much history behind
corruption in Hong Kong and deeply ingrained attitudes are involved. The
Commissioner will therefore have a civil unit whose main task will lie in
educating the public as to the evils of corruption not only from the point of view
of the recipient but also from that of the giver. It will also critically examine
administrative procedures which lend themselves to corrupt practices.
To combat corruption, good laws and good organization are essential, but I
put my trust principally in the services of sound men.
The Commissioner will be Mr CATER, I hope his appointment will commend
itself to honourable Members. I believe him to be uniquely qualified to do the
job. The Commissioner, like the Chairman of the Public Services Commission,
will have access to the Governor whenever he wishes. I need scarcely say that I
will take a very close personal interest in the development of this Commission.
Might I take this opportunity to say how intensely I appreciate the public
spirit of the Telephone Company, and particularly of the Chairman, Dr LEE, in
releasing Mr CATER from his contract, at very great inconvenience to themselves,
to allow him to undertake this service to Hong Kong.
We have taken very careful advice from the Overseas Police Adviser to the
Secretary of State and others on what outside help we should enlist to get the
operations unit of the Commission off to a good start, and build it up into the
highly expert, effective and dedicated organization that it must be if it is to make
headway. In the light of this advice we are appointing immediately Mr John
PRENDERGAST to be Director of Operations. His record as a policeman is one of
unbroken success in many different situations, and he has the advantage of
experience of Hong Kong between 1960 and 1966 as Director of Special Branch.
In due course we will be appointing one or two more from United Kingdom
police forces, at different levels, with special experience of anti-corruption work.
But these are all the importations we have in mind. Basically it is for us in
Hong Kong to put our own house in order, and I know very well we have the
men and women both inside and outside the police force to do it.
The implications of these appointments will be apparent—the Government
means business.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 19
The calibre and experience of these men provides assurance that this is so.
None are better qualified to find out the truth, and to set about carefully but
inexorably eradicating this endemic disease. I have no illusions that this will be
anything but a slow, long, uphill process; but everything that energy, devotion
and official backing can do to achieve these results will be done.
I would like to add a few more words on this subject. We here in Hong
Kong know the strengths as well as the weaknesses of our community, of our
Government and of our public services. When we criticize faults here, we do so
to an audience well aware of the strengths and achievements that make up the
full picture of Hong Kong. But this is not so overseas. As this matter is
developing, the people of many countries will soon believe that the only thing
notable about Hong Kong is its corruption.
We know that Hong Kong is not alone in the world in facing a problem of
corruption. We know of many cities and countries much worse and many no
better in Europe, America, and Asia, and which have not known the pressures
under which we here have existed. I wonder what the result would be if many
governments whether national or municipal, opened their most confidential files
to impartial and expert scrutiny and published the results? We have done this,
because we realize that there is only one way to stop people calling Hong Kong
corrupt, and that is to eradicate corruption from our society. This we are
determined to do.
The Godber affair has highlighted the case for amendment of the Fugitive
Offenders Act, as recommended by Sir Alastair BLAIR-KERR. The requirement
of double criminality is hard to understand in the case of a dependent territory,
such as Hong Kong. We feel sure it was not Her Majesty's Government
intention in the Fugitive Offenders Act to frustrate in the United Kingdom the
intention of laws approved by Her Majesty's Government in Hong Kong.
I have represented to the Secretary of State the strong feelings on this
subject here. This, of course, is not the only way to bring Godber back for trial.
It remains only for one man to come forward and give conclusive evidence of a
corrupt transaction.
Corruption in Hong Kong is a very old story. So is narcotics addiction.
But the latter is a field in which devoted and imaginative work has been done in
Hong Kong on a wide scale by many dedicated men and women. This work is
second to none in the world and has received considerable international acclaim.
But one must recognize
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 20
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
that the problem persists on a very large scale and that if we are to make
headway, much more will have to be done in the future than has been possible in
the past.
In attempting to reduce and eradicate this problem there appear to us to be
four separate but inter-related fields in which we must make progress.
First, prevention of production and despatch to Hong Kong. This relates to
the Golden Triangle and Thailand, the country from which come nearly all opium
and opium derivatives consumed in Hong Kong. This is for international
action.
Secondly, interception of shipment over the high seas, mostly by trawler, to
international waters off Hong Kong. This field too is for international action.
Thirdly, suppression of clandestine entry into Hong Kong and distribution to
addicts by local criminals. This lies within our direct jurisdiction.
Fourthly, the eradication of demand by cure of addicts. This too is within
our jurisdiction.
Action on any of these fronts assists action on others. For instance, if
shipments are intercepted and the price of the drug rises, it is a strong
inducement to an addict to seek a cure. But equally failure on any front
undermines success on others. Thus improved treatment of drug addiction
could do little in the face of an abundant and cheap supply of drugs. Nor would
interruption of the seaborne traffic have much effect if abundance of production
in the Golden Triangle and a strong demand in Hong Kong remained an open
invitation to traffickers to bridge the gap.
As I see it we must now work to achieve progress on all four fronts, while
making our own major effort on those two within our jurisdiction.
I said last year that the first step towards the formulation of a coherent and
forceful policy was the appointment of a single senior officer, the Commissioner
for Narcotics, to co-ordinate all aspects of this problem which are handled by so
many different Government departments and voluntary agencies. Over the last
year his work has largely been investigatory and preparatory, critically examining
what
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 21
is being done in each of these fields and with what result. This phase is nearly
completed, and the threads are now being drawn together in recommendations
for action. When approved these will be embodied in a White Paper to be
published about the end of the year.
One decision already taken is to second a Liaison Officer to the staff of our
Ambassador at Bangkok, with of course the full agreement of the Thai
Government. He will take up his duties next month. This follows visits by the
Commissioner to Burma, Laos and Thailand earlier this year.
Another decision relates to the organization, co-ordination and control of the
intensified effort we have in mind. The Executive Council has decided that the
controlling body should be the Action Committee against Narcotics, and that its
membership should be streamlined for this purpose. Its chairman will be Sir
Albert RODRIGUES. His experience, devotion and authority in this field are
unparalleled; and he is clearly the man to preside. The terms of reference of the
committee will be strengthened to make it the sole channel of advice to the
Government on all policy aspects of the drive against narcotics and narcotic
addiction, including the allocation of resources both to Government departments
and voluntary agencies alike. The Commissioner for Narcotics will be a
member of the committee and he and his staff will form the committee's
executive arm, and provide it with the administrative muscle it has lacked
hitherto.
Most distinguished work has been done in the field of cure of drug addiction
by the Prisons Department, and by various voluntary agencies subsidized by the
Government, and particularly SARDA, the Discharged Prisoners' Aid Society,
and other agencies. Nevertheless, we feel that further progress and greater coordination in this field is essential, and that it is the responsibility of the
Government to provide a sufficient pool of expertise and authority to give a lead
and to advise the committee on how this work can be pressed forward and coordinated.
It has therefore been decided to place responsibility for Drug Addiction
Treatment and Research firmly on the Department of Medical and Health
Services, and that a new division be formed in the department for this purpose as
soon as possible. I know that Dr Gerald CHOA accepts this new challenge
eagerly.
I cannot sufficiently emphasize the importance for our programme of
eradication of having a form of treatment for addicts which can
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 22
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
be applied en masse and without long confinement in an institution. The pilot
schemes now being conducted by the Department of Medical and Health
Services, and by the Discharged Prisoners' Aid Association are therefore of
critical importance. Dr CHOA will be expanding on this later in the debate.
I spoke at some length last year of my deep concern about the growth of
crime, and particularly of violent crime. During the year, action has been taken
on a very wide front. One might say that this action has fallen under three main
headings: to increase the numbers and effectiveness of police on the street; to
change things done by the police to make them more acceptable to the public; to
change things done by the public to make them more helpful to the police and to
themselves.
There is still great doubt amongst real experts as to what the root causes of
crime are. But a working group has produced an illuminating interim report on
facets of life in Hong Kong that probably contribute to crime, and we await its
final report with great interest. These papers suggest that certain aspects of our
social programmes and certain defects in them, have more immediate relevance
for the combatting of crime than others. It is extremely valuable to have these
critical areas pin-pointed and the implications will be very carefully considered.
Certainly it is reasonable to hope that the great programmes of improvement in
housing, education and social welfare will all help over crime, though the
programmes are justified on their own merits. But in the short term we must
rely very largely on deterrence and all experts are agreed that the basic deterrent
is fear of detection. Few men commit crimes which they know will be detected.
One of the key elements in deterrence is a large and visible and effective
police presence. One of our endeavours has therefore been to increase the
number of police. The Government started by a drive to expand the Auxiliaries
as the quickest way of raising numbers, and because of the vital role which the
Auxiliaries could play as a link between the regular police and the
neighbourhoods they serve. Within a period of something like 9 months the
Auxiliaries have been increased from 3,500 to 7,000 trained men. This has
been a magnificent effort by all concerned.
We subsequently conducted a campaign for the recruitment of regulars.
This was done following the first action phase of the Fight Violent Crime
Campaign, and yielded 400 acceptable recruits. While
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 23
this was substantially more than had been obtained for some time in a similar
drive, I think it is fair to say that the result was greatly prejudiced by the escape
of Godber and the attendant publicity, which ironically coincided with the
recruitment drive. Certainly we had hoped to do better. We will be mounting
a further drive later this year, and as a result the police still hope to be able to
recruit in 1973 about half as many again as in 1972, that is to say about 1,200
men. But this is still not enough, and the shortfall in recruitment and the
wastage from the ranks must not be allowed to continue. We have therefore
been looking again urgently at police pay and conditions of service, and
proposals will be made to the Finance Committee of this Council in a fortnight's
time. One of the most significant single contributions that could be made to
increasing the deterrence to crime that the regular police force provides would be
to bring it up to strength. I assure honourable Members that with their support,
we will do our utmost to achieve this.
To gain more uniformed officers for the beat a review has been undertaken
of jobs which could be done by civilians. This will be a gradual, long term
process, but 200 or 300 should have been gained this way this year, and this
process will continue.
Finally, in this field of recruitment, I am glad to say that the new Police
Cadet School has already opened in temporary quarters in Fanling, and that plans
are far advanced for the construction of the permanent school on Tolo Harbour,
which will house about 1,200 cadets. This is the beginning of a project of the
greatest interest. Provided it develops along the right lines it could make a
major contribution not only to the quantity but equally, or even more important,
to the quality of the young men joining the force.
So much for recruitment.
With regard to police/public relations, the police took a radical new look at
themselves to consider ways and means of making their facilities and procedures
more convenient to the law-abiding public. Their reporting procedures were
changed to be less time-consuming; the 999 call system was expanded; new
police relations with the public via Area Committees were created, and the
public's views on current police practices sought and listened to. It soon
became apparent that the public was anxious for a rapid expansion of a
permanent police presence in estates by the construction of new stations.
Though some of these were in the pipeline the building programme could not
meet these wishes overnight, so the system of reporting centres was greatly
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 24
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
expanded. We now have 43, and they are being supplemented by mobile units
equipped with radio stationed at fixed points.
The public for its part set about organising itself to make the life of the
criminal more difficult in various ways. By increasing security in the home and
the shop and the residential block; by reporting crime when seen; and by raising
a hue and cry after criminals. This has been done through the excellent work of
area and mutual aid committees, assisted by the City District Officers. Might I
say in parenthesis what an excellent system that of the CDO’s has come to be,
and how constantly it proves its worth.
All this was backed by a strong publicity campaign.
A very large element in what was done was a maximum effort by the
regular police and the Auxiliaries to deter and arrest criminals and, though tactics
necessarily change from time to time, this effort is continuing and will continue.
Five months is, of course, too short a time for decisive or permanent results
to be achieved. The success of the campaign in encouraging people to report
crimes they would not previously have done has also distorted the statistics of
reported crime just as we always expected would be the case. The Secretary for
Home Affairs, as chairman of the campaign committee, will be going into details
later in the debate.
But I can say here and now from the reports received from a very wide
variety of sources, I believe that we are getting to grips with the problem. The
methods chosen appear to have been ones the public understand and appreciate,
and they have secured the public's cooperation and involvement on a scale and in
a way that is quite new. Many people, from all levels of society, have come
forward to help, to organize and to give a lead in making their neighbourhood
safer. With this civilian endeavour and sustained police effort, public
confidence and ease of mind has improved. Crime was once regarded as a
problem for the police alone. It is now accepted as one for the community.
There is a new and healthier spirit, new determination, new hope.
So far so good. We should not be dismayed by the length of the road that
we still have to travel. We always knew it would be very
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 25
long and hard. But we can take encouragement from having made a sound start.
Now everyone. Government, police and public, must continue as they have
started, must not be deflected, and we will prevail.
I myself will continue to take the closest possible interest in this joint effort
by police and public to reduce crime. I believe that nothing touches so
intimately the ease of mind and happiness of our community.
Finally a word about the state of our economy. It is on the success of this
that our future development depends. I have said in the past that the aim of this
Government was prosperity with social progress. Social progress can only be
based on prosperity. What then is the state of our prosperity?
It has been a year of exceptional difficulty for our exporters, our business
Men, our bankers and our developers. Let me remind you of a few.
The rise and fall of our stock market was a sad and basically very dangerous
phenomenon which has left deep scars. It would have brought a less robust
economy to its knees. There was an immediate loss of confidence in the market
both local and international, and this is only gradually recovering. I think all
investors are agreed that in this instance laissez-faire produced excessive risks
both for individuals and for Hong Kong, and I am sure that the introduction of
disciplines having the force of law is an essential step on the road to full
recovery.
I should like to express my thanks for the devoted work of the Securities
Advisory Council under the very able chairmanship of Mr Y. H. KAN, and also of
Mr SELWYN, the Commissioner for Securities. The draft legislation which is the
fruit of their labours will be placed before this Council very shortly. No doubt
honourable Members will wish to look closely at the details. It would be
surprising if there were not room for improvement in such massive drafts. But,
with the safeguards that legislation can provide for investors, with market values
bearing a much more attractive price earnings ratio, and with good prospects for
growth in the economy, I think we can look forward to brighter days ahead. It
is clear from what has been said to me in the City of London and by visiting
financiers, that while the phenomenon of the rise and fall of the stock exchange
was a temporary deterrent to overseas investors, the fact that the economy has
been able to weather such a shock has made a very favourable impression.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 26
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
I note that the steady stream of merchant banks setting up it Hong Kong
continues and this is a fair indication of international estimates of the importance
and soundness of Hong Kong as a regional financial centre.
It is the rise in prices which is now causing most immediate concern to all
of us. The plain fact of the matter is that the world is going through a particularly
inflationary phase, and that Hong Kong cannot insulate itself from it.
This world inflationary trend has coincided with a significant rise in the
prices being charged for imported foodstuffs. This is partly a result of world
grain shortages, partly the exceptional climatic conditions of this summer in
Hong Kong and South China, and partly due to new pricing policies which have
brought the price of perishable foodstuffs in Hong Kong to levels comparable
with prices elsewhere in the world. We must face the fact that those who sell us
their goods are just as entitled to charge the going rate for them as we are entitled
to do the same for our exports.
In this situation we will of course watch closely to see whether the prices of
foodstuffs not subject to normal international competition get out of line with
prices elsewhere. We can eliminate artificial restrictions on the source of
supply of food and this we have done in the case of rice. To some extent we
can discourage exploitation of the uncertainties of the food market by excessive
mark-up, and this too has been done in the case of rice. The rise in prices
should encourage an increase in domestic supplies of produce and this in time
may help as should the prospect of better weather. But basically, we are in the
grip of a world shortage of commodities and we can only hope that forecasts of
the easing of this trend will prove correct.
The main contribution the Government can make towards containing
inflationary trends is through its social policies: cheap subsidized housing for
those least able to afford commercial rents, and the control of rents themselves;
free primary education, and heavily subsidised secondary and tertiary education;
social services and relief for the handicapped and the destitute, and charges for
medical care which are so subsidized as to be almost free.
Inevitably the rise in prices will tend to put pressure on wages. In
considering the effect on our competitive position, what has happened elsewhere
is relevant; you will appreciate that our competitors have
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 27
not been confronted with the same rise in prices of perishable foodstuffs due to
climatic conditions that we have. It is true that the trend has sharply increased
recently, but a study of comparable figures elsewhere shows that up to May,
which is the last month for which we have a complete set, the rate of inflation in
Hong Kong was no worse than elsewhere—and I refer both to our competitors
and to our markets. This is not at all to say that present prices here do not press
hard upon the population, or that in the last months the comparative trend may
not have been against us.
Apart from rising prices two other major problems have beset the economy
during the past year. One has been international currency instability. This has
created many difficulties for our manufacturers and traders, particularly since so
much of our trade has always been transacted in US dollars and sterling. I wish
that it were possible for me to suggest that international currency stability is near
at hand, but it seems clear that uncertainties will continue for some time to come,
and that there is nothing which we here can do about it. Meanwhile there is
welcome evidence of our own currency maintaining its strength.
Today I can add little on the problem of our sterling holdings and the
unilateral offer of a 6-month guarantee announced by Her Majesty's Government
aimed at stabilizing the market. As a major holder the Hong Kong Government
of course has a very strong interest in the stability of sterling, and friendly
exchanges continue with the Treasury about what we might do in our own and
the general interest.
Another major problem for our manufacturers has been a worldwide general
shortage of raw materials. I have been impressed by the tremendous efforts
made by our importers. The trading and industrial organizations also have
played a most helpful role in seeking out raw material sources, whilst the
Commerce and Industry Department has assisted with official representations
and coordination of effort.
A further difficulty looms ahead in the obligation of the British Government,
as from the 1st of January, to make its first move towards harmonization with the
common external tariff of the EEC. Under the accession arrangements, which
involved the exclusion of textiles and footwear from Hong Kong in the extension
to Hong Kong of EEC generalized preferences this would involve progressive
discrimination by Great Britain against Hong Kong in respect of these two
products. Of course the other side of this coin is that this was the price paid by
the negotiators to obtain acceptance by the EEC of Hong Kong’s inclusion in all
other generalized preferences. Nevertheless
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 28
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
we find this development a most disquieting one, and we have left Her Majesty's
Government in no doubt as to the strength of our feeling on this subject in Hong
Kong. We regard this issue as an open one on which adjustments could and
should be sought in the course of annual reviews.
Against this background of so many difficulties it is encouraging that the
value of our domestic exports alone, that is to say excluding re-exports, in the
first eight months of this year was 21 % up in value on the same eight months of
1972, and let us remember that this is an export-led economy. Even allowing
for inflation of values, it was a remarkable result. It would appear that real as
the difficulties have been, they have affected different sectors in different ways
and to different degrees. Some exporters have found their expansion slowed
down by export restraints, for instance in the United States. Others have found
increased opportunities in other markets or in other lines. Our business with the
EEC has substantially increased, and there are prospects of a more liberal attitude
towards imports in Japan. Similarly, changes in international parties have brought
loss in some markets, but opened up new opportunities in others. Making
allowance for such shifting patterns of light and shade I find the general picture,
the picture that affects Hong Kong as a whole, an encouraging one. It is
remarkable that in the face of so many problems and uncertainties expansion
should still have continued. This gives solid ground for hope that the ingenuity
of our exporters and their labour force, the hard-headedness of our official
negotiators, and the sheer demand for I Hong Kong's goods can continue to
combine to ensure the expansion of our economy.
So, honourable Members, it is on this cautiously bullish note that I end this
year's address. We have had our measure of problems, and not unnaturally it is
these that have tended to hold public attention. But insofar as they have been
economic Hong Kong has managed to hold its way through them and maintain
its expansion. And for the future the Financial Secretary confidently predicts an
annual growth rate of the gross domestic product in real terms of 7%—a
remarkable figure. Insofar as our problems have been social or administrative I
have explained what we have done or intend to so, and have told you of such
progress as has been made.
We all welcome the progressive relaxation of international tensions in this
area, the product of realistic statesmanship. We welcome in particular the new
relationship between the United Kingdom and
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—17th October 1973 29
China, and the prospect of the Prime Minister’s visit to Peking in January.
If all these different portents hold up I am therefore tolerably confident that
the year ahead will be one of the prosperity and social progress to which your
Government is committed.