Honourable Members, last year I spoke to you shortly before the outbreak
of the Arab/Israeli war and the drastic change in the cost of oil, the savage twist
to world inflation and all the financial and other problems which followed.
The year which ensued has not been easy for Hong Kong though it has been
better than might have been expected. And though I expect the year which now
begins to be better in Hong Kong than in many other cities in the world, it too
will probably not be easy either. This coincides with a period during which in
any case your Government has thought it right to take stock, and to consolidate
and maintain progress in its existing fields of endeavour, rather than to launch
out into new ones.
In the last quarter century life in Hong Kong has been dominated by the way
in which the growth in population out-stripped the capacity of any government to
provide for residents and immigrants alike some of the basic infrastructure of life.
But the problem was faced and very great progress was made. So much so that
two years ago your Government concluded that the time had come when it could
draw up programmes to make an end to these deficiencies. As a rough guide
we set ourselves the time span of a decade. To make this effort, and I have
never under-rated how great the effort would have to be, the machinery of
Government was overhauled, and procedures were streamlined and geared to the
new requirements.
I would like honourable Members to realize what great pressure on the
public services this generated, and I would like to record my admiration for the
enthusiasm and the devotion with which they have responded.
In recent months, in the new economic climate of the world, there has been
much speculation and concern not only about whether all these plans taken
together are viable or require some cutting back, but also how far the reduced
growth of world trade and the many international financial problems that have
emerged and remain unsolved, will affect these plans and more immediately the
livelihood of people here in Hong Kong. I am sure that such thoughts as these
are very much to the fore in your minds, and therefore much of this address will
be about them.
But I would like to say at the outset that, though no firm prediction is
possible at this time of the exact duration either of the downturn in some of our
markets, or of its effect on our own economy, it
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 5
may well be temporary, and certainly will be so in comparison to the time span
over which our plans are to be implemented. We would therefore be making a
most serious mistake at this stage to allow it to deflect us from our long term
aims except to the minimum extent that common prudence will dictate. I
therefore reiterate my belief that it is upon the realization of these aims that the
future happiness, cohesion and prosperity of this community depends.
In consequence, in spite of these new and unexpected difficulties, your
Government has continued to devote a great deal of its time and energy to the
elaboration and implementation of long term plans for housing, social welfare,
education, medical and health services and transport. I am sure that in this our
priorities are right, and later in this address I will explain the practical
implications of the work that has been done. But before doing so I would like
to mention some other aspects of administration to which I attach importance and
for which I hope to have your support.
Crime
First and foremost, crime and the fight to master it. Fear of crime and
criminals continues to be one of the most disturbing factors in the life of our
community, and particularly in the lives of its poorer members. This
Government has the clear duty to restore their peace of mind.
I will not recapitulate the detailed account I gave last year of your
Government's many-sided approach to this problem. But in the last year the
thrust has been developed on three main fronts: firstly to recruit, train and
sensibly deploy more policemen; secondly to improve police techniques,
procedures and organization; thirdly to mobilize people in neighbourhoods to
assist each other and the police to deter crime. With a successful combination
of all these things we should have a larger and more efficient police force
tackling crime in circumstances which would be much more difficult for the
criminal. Neither the police alone nor the public alone can turn back this tide,
but acting together as a united community I believe we can.
Your Government is of course also pressing on with other action which
might bear on crime. The provision of assisted secondary education for all is
one of them; expansion, co-ordination and improved supervision of recreational
and community facilities is another. I am sure that boredom and lack of healthy
outlets for energy breed crime. But while such measures could, and I hope will,
help in the long term, we are confronted with an immediate pressing problem
calling for more effective action to deter crime.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 6
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
The substance of the problem—a rising crime rate—is still very much with
us, and indeed it would be surprising if dramatic results had been achieved here
in so short a time over a problem that has proved so intractable elsewhere.
Crime statistics make bewildering reading and can be bedevilled by so
many extraneous factors, but certainly the trend of crime over the last year has
continued upward. It is true that the increase in serious crimes, which are those
against which our main drive has been made, has levelled off. But while both
police and public can take heart from this first ray of hope that can be discerned
following the great efforts they have made, it would be wrong to read too much
into this tendency of the last six or eight months. Nor is there any question of
our doing so. The level is in any case unacceptably high, and there can be no
room for self-congratulation until a significant and sustained decrease has been
achieved. But though success still eludes us, the outlook is not by any means
all black, because real progress has been made in the essential pre-requisites, the
groundwork that must be laid, before there is much prospect of getting decisive
results.
In the first place there has been a break-through in recruitment for the police.
This is at last proceeding at a satisfactory rate, and with a new intake of high
quality. The net increase this year in the constabulary is likely to be at least
1,500 (as against 300 last year), and there is a reasonably satisfactory net
increase in the inspectorate.
No doubt this greatly improved situation is due to many factors, including
improved conditions of service, improved recruiting techniques and perhaps, to a
lesser extent, to a tighter labour market. But I think that the prime cause is
improved relations between police and public and the good spirit of our young
people. For the present high quality of recruit I suspect there are softer jobs for
the money, but they join for a chance of an active life in protection of the
community, and Hong Kong has every reason to be proud of them.
Progress has also been made in the re-organization of the police force to
fight crime and in retraining it for its changed relationship with the public to
which we all attach so much importance. The Secretary for Security will be
explaining the details later in the debate.
But I would like to speak about what the public—those at the receiving end
of crime—have done. The creation of 1,500 mutual aid committees, with the
accompanying superstructure of area committees, is not only a considerable
administrative achievement, but indicates the
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 7
great need that these organizations fill. There was indeed a void: a void
which was as dangerous for the Government as it was unwelcome to the ordinary
citizen, who was left without means of influencing conditions outside his own
front door. Some of these committees are more effective than others, but they
have done much to discourage crime in their own areas. In many cases they
have installed alarm systems, and engaged watchmen to patrol the premises, and
they constitute a new deterrent to criminals that can be made increasingly
effective and is very welcome to police and public alike.
I always leave meetings with mutual aid committees encouraged by the
knowledge that in this field attitudes are changing fast. We have many good
citizens willing to give a lead on how the people of a neighbourhood may help
each other and help the community by making their own areas safer, cleaner and
better to live in.
We have always had in mind that the ultimate aim was to develop regular
policing on a neighbourhood basis, with, in addition, separate forces deployed to
attack crime in accordance with strategic and tactical plans directed by District
and Divisional Commanders. For this we first needed civilian neighbourhood
organizations—we now have them. We also needed more regular policemen
available for deployment—these too we are now beginning to have. Finally we
needed trained auxiliaries from the neighbourhood to form a link between the
regular police and the civilian population. We are now beginning to have all
these and you will have seen the beginnings of the neighbourhood policing
scheme which we intend progressively to develop.
I am extremely interested in these new methods. Two new sorts of
relationship are being built up. The first is between the people who live in a
block or a neighbourhood; the means of knowing each other, as the families of a
village used to know each other, is being offered and often taken with relief.
Secondly a new relationship is being created between the people of these
neighbourhoods and the public service. The growth is new and too much must
not be expected or claimed for it at this stage, but it is a healthy growth, and it
must be carefully and consistently encouraged, commensurate with the ability of
the Department of Home Affairs to provide the necessary support. The aim
must be quality rather than quantity. So far this new process of cooperation has
been largely confined to the fields of cleanliness and crime, but rightly all the
time other subjects are being thrown up and thus direct consultation and
participation over a widening field is being evolved. In short a new path can
now be seen opening up before us and I am sure that we should take it with
confidence and perseverance.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 8
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
The Consumer Council
Before leaving this subject of community relations I wish to mention briefly
the Consumer Council. First of all much of its membership was quite new to
the working of public advisory bodies but was representative of sections of the
community on which the rise in prices was pressing particularly hard. Secondly
it successfully achieved its purpose of reassuring the public that where prices
were high because of unreasonable manipulation or mark up in Hong Kong itself,
something could be done about it. Thirdly it achieved its results through the
quick and impartial investigation of facts on the one hand, and the use of
persuasion and public opinion on the other. Surely we should proceed in this
quick and informal way whenever we appropriately can, rather than always rely
on the procedures of legislation, police investigation and the law courts. It is so
much better to persuade than to punish. I would like to record my gratitude to
Sir Yuet-keung KAN for his able and imaginative chairmanship of this Council.
Prisons
Increased crime, more vigorous measures to combat it, more prosecutions
and the longer sentences being imposed, have produced a marked increase in the
prison population. The total number of inmates on the 30th September this year
was about 7,600 as compared with 6,400 a year ago.
In Stanley Prison alone the population was just under 3,000 whereas the
prison was designed for 1,500. Honourable Members will know of the
incidents that have occurred.
Something has already been done to strengthen the physical security of
Stanley Prison and to improve management and operating procedures.
However, in the long term new institutions will be needed and Stanley Prison
itself will have to be progressively rebuilt. Two new institutions at Pik Uk on
Clearwater Bay Road will be completed within the next few months and will
help to ease the position. Although other projects in the Public Works
Programme, including a new maximum security prison, will eventually
accommodate about 3,000 offenders, it will be some time before these are
completed. We are therefore looking for other temporary accommodation
which could be used to solve the immediate problem of over-crowding with its
attendant risk of disorder.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 9
The detention centres have now completed their first two years and the
system is being evaluated. The preliminary conclusion is that they have been
successful and repaid the immense amount of care and effort put into them by the
Prison's Department. So far, only 10% of those who have passed through them
have been reconvicted. We can be satisfied, I think, that our Prisons
Department is making constructive and reasonably successful progress in their
problem of dealing with the young offender who is not yet a hardened criminal.
Independent Commission Against Corruption
A year ago in this Council I announced my intention of setting up an
Independent Commission Against Corruption under a civilian commissioner.
Within four months the Commission was in being and working under a new
ordinance. While the Operations Department—the investigatory arm of the
Commission—is the only section so far fully functional, the Corruption
Prevention and Community Relations departments are now being set up and will
soon be at work. As soon as their staff are in position, two advisory committees
on Corruption Prevention and Community Relations will be established, together
with a small high-powered supervisory committee to advise the Commissioner
and myself on major policy aspects of the Commission's work. The public has
responded well to this new organization; and reports made to it have increased by
some 300% compared with those made during a similar period last year.
The Operations Department has already made some impact. About 80
prosecutions for corruption and kindred offences have been launched against a
wide variety of Government servants and members of the public, and this is
double what was done in the same period last year. In considering this record it
is necessary to remember that some 80% of the Operations Department have a
civilian background.
Inevitably this has meant a tremendous effort to train staff in their entirely
new role. But these enthusiastic newcomers are an impressive, well-educated
lot directed by experienced investigators, and under the overall direction of Mr
PRENDERGAST, one of the most successful policemen in the Commonwealth.
Building up the initial momentum of our fight against corruption will depend
very largely on the success of the Operations Department. It is inescapable that
to deter the corrupt and to secure public confidence, a satisfactory volume of
detection and punishment is essential. But once it has become apparent that
corruption does not pay, the Corruption Prevention and Community Relations
sides of the Commission will be able to play vitally important parts. There can be no
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 10
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
real victory in dealing with this problem unless there are changes of attitude
throughout the community. Though this will take time, we are totally
committed. I have faith in Mr CATER and the able and devoted people who are
directing and manning the Commission. A more difficult task has rarely been
undertaken in Hong Kong. They know they can count on the complete support
of the Government. But in the long run their best ally will be the good sense of
the people of Hong Kong and the sincerity of their demand that the time for new
standards has come.
Recreation and Sport
Now let me turn to the much pleasanter subject of recreation and sport.
Last year I spoke of the importance of more facilities in this overcrowded
city. We need to maximize use of the facilities already in existence and to
provide more and there is a parallel need to develop the countryside, the
mountains and the beaches to provide recreation and fresh air when people have
time to get to them.
This must be a co-operative effort between the Government departments
and the many private clubs and voluntary agencies already in the field. It was
to co-ordinate and expand these efforts that the Council for Recreation and Sport
has been set up. It is now getting into its stride.
One of its first steps was to recommend that District Recreation Officers
should be appointed whose duty it would be to encourage and advise on how to
maximize recreational facilities in each district, and also to encourage the use of
the country-side by people of the city. A pilot scheme for five City Districts
and for Yuen Long is now in operation.
The Council has done much ad hoc work greatly helped by a generous
private donation. For instance in the urban areas and the New Territories
something of the order of 190 concrete ping-pong tables, volley-ball and
basket-ball pitches have been ordered or are in process of construction, along
with a considerable volume of equipment. Funds have also been channelled
through the Council for the expansion of activities in various standing camps,
or the construction of new ones, that will result in supervised week-ends in the
country for at least 15,000 more young people next year. In addition plans
of the Department of Agriculture and Fisheries for providing countryside
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 11
amenities are now beginning to make real progress: 60 new picnic sites came
into commission last year, with an accompanying infrastructure of 5 miles of
paths, and 30 more sites will be completed in the coming year. If I might say so
they have been built and equipped with notable imagination and good taste and
they are well fulfilling their function of attracting more visitors to the
countryside.
The young people of Hong Kong are taking more and more to picnicking,
hiking and camping. This has developed on their own initiative. But to help
the movement gain momentum funds have been put into the Outward Bound
School to expand it to make room to teach leaders from the urban areas and from
schools how the countryside can best be enjoyed. Similarly I was delighted to
learn of the formation of a Youth Hostels Association in Hong Kong, and the
Government is giving all the assistance it can in the provision of sites for hostels.
These are all comparatively small steps in the direction we must go, but they
are already of some significance.
Such heavy use of the countryside brings with it its problems of
conservation. During the year additional Agriculture and Fisheries Department
litter gangs and Urban Services cleansing gangs have been established, and also
more fire-fighting crews, and with its traditional civic spirit, the Civil Aid
Services are now training to provide additional fire-fighting coverage in the
countryside this winter. These services are steadily improving the cleanliness
and reducing the fire hazards in the main points at which visitors congregate.
But there remains the litter and the bush fires left by the thoughtless and the
careless who roam further afield. Many members of regular hiking and
picnicking clubs and others who know and care for Hong Kong's countryside, are
already acting as scavengers for the careless who still do not. Now that this
admirable trend to walking and picnicking is developing so fast, it is evident that
in parallel there must be systematic education of all concerned about how to
preserve the mountains and the beaches that they visit.
I have emphasized these expanding uses of the countryside because they
offer a natural balance to the lack of space for facilities in the city. But they can
never be more than supplementary to what is done and provided in the urban areas.
The efforts of the Urban Council, the Education Department and the many
voluntary agencies concerned are therefore vital. The Urban Council has
continued to make rapid progress in this field, and honourable Members will be
aware that the Council has completed during the last year 36 new public gardens, 20
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 12
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
children’s playgrounds and 26 courts for basket-ball or volley-ball. They also
completed a further swimming complex in Kennedy Town. Members will also
have noted the steady progress being made by the Parks Department in the
provision of more greenery, shade and colour in our city.
The Urban Council
And here might I pay my tribute to the new-style Urban Council. Earlier
this year it completed its first year under the new autonomous financial
arrangements, and I am sure that in this Council which contains both serving
members and alumni of the Urban Council, honourable Members would wish me
to say how much we all admire the vigour and imagination with which the new
Council has set about its task.
Labour
I should now like to say something about labour legislation. Hong Kong's
prosperity depends fundamentally on its principal resource, its diligent and
adaptable work force. The well-being of this labour force rests primarily in the
hands of workers and trades unions on the one hand and of employers on the
other. But the Government too has a significant responsibility to ensure that
reasonable minimum standards are applied. Much has been done in recent
years to secure a steady improvement in working conditions and terms of
employment through an extensive programme of labour legislation. This is a
continuous process and today I will review some of the main areas of recent
achievement and indicate what your Government proposes for the coming year
as well as in the longer term.
First, good progress has been made in the continuing review of the
Employment Ordinance. This was originally so framed that further parts
could be added progressively to build up a comprehensive code of
employment, and a number of major amendments have been made over the
past two years. Holidays with pay and sickness allowance have been
extended to all employees covered by the ordinance; entitlement to sick leave
has been increased and the qualifications for it simplified; controls have been
introduced over employment agencies to ensure that workers, whether to be
employed in Hong Kong or overseas, are not exploited; workers have been
afforded statutory protection as members of trade unions in relation to their
employers. Finally, severance payments have been made a statutory
entitlement for redundant workers. This measure alone represents a significant
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 13
advance. The rates of severance pay provided are lower than those paid by
most larger employers, but it was necessary that they should be set at a level
which could be afforded by those many smaller employers who formerly gave
little or no severance pay at all, and it is particularly in this area that a real
improvement has been made.
With regard to the coming session, regulations will be submitted to this
Council to reduce the maximum permissible overtime for women and young
persons. We have in mind a reduction from 300 to 250 hours a year from the
beginning of next year and a further reduction to 200 in 1976.
I mentioned in this Council last year that the Labour Tribunal had proved an
immediate success. This has been sustained, and this year a second tribunal has
been established and the Labour Tribunal Ordinance has been made permanent.
During the coming session your Government hopes to introduce for your
consideration a new Labour Relations Bill. This bill is designed to provide
statutory backing for the Labour Relations Service of the Labour Department and
for procedures to be followed in a labour dispute when conciliation has failed.
Labour relations have traditionally been good in Hong Kong. But it is hoped
that this bill will help to facilitate settlements when other means have failed. As
now conceived it deliberately avoids provision of powers to impose compulsory
settlements. Perhaps honourable Members will agree that elsewhere such
compulsory powers have proved conspicuously ineffective.
The promotion of industrial safety still requires further urgent attention.
Safety regulations made during the last two years have covered the more
dangerous industrial activities including construction work, the use of lifting
appliances and lifting gear and work in confined spaces. Further regulations
will soon be introduced to cover cargo handling at wharves, quays and godowns.
Others are projected for a variety of specialized industrial processes but the only
major area on which a good deal of work remains to be done is that of guarding
machinery. Of course improved industrial safety cannot be achieved solely by
the enactment of special regulations. The cooperation of employers and
workers is essential and steps are being taken to encourage this through a five
year programme of action including the extension of safety training and
increased publicity.
The Workmen's Compensation Ordinance, like the Employment Ordinance,
is kept under constant review. Recent amendments have raised the maximum
wage ceiling for entitlement of non-manual workers under these two ordinances
from $1,500 to $2,000 a month.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 14
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
At the same time the maximum amounts that can be claimed in workmen's
compensation were correspondingly increased by 30%. The Workmen's
Compensation Ordinance is due for a major overhaul over the next two years but
one related matter deserves attention. This is silicosis, one of the most serious
occupational diseases occurring in Hong Kong, which has never been included in
the schedule to the ordinance because it takes a long time for the disease to
become apparent. A special compensation scheme for those suffering from the
disease will be introduced during this session.
During its first full year of operation the Hong Kong Training Council has
been considering the draft bill designed to provide a legislative framework for
apprenticeship schemes. Work on this is in the final stages and it is intended
that the bill should reach this Council during the coming session. The rate of
further progress in this field will be to some extent dependent on the success of
efforts to recruit suitably qualified technical staff to support the recently created
training division within the Labour Department.
Honourable Members, we have now reached the stage where legislation
already enacted or about to be enacted covers most of the major areas in the
labour field. We must now aim to consolidate this position. Many of the
measures provide only minimal standards and there are some gaps to be filled.
This can be done in part by reviewing and revising existing legislation but there
are also other important tasks to be undertaken such as developing and improving
the factory and labour inspectorates and also the promotion of industrial safety.
Let me say that in this programme of labour legislation the Government has
no wish to place industrial relations in a strait jacket. I know that this is not the
wish of either workers or employers —both of whom value the flexibility which
has contributed so much to both the tradition and the strength of Hong Kong.
Broadly speaking we intend to continue to move only after close consultation
with the Labour Advisory Board, and other organizations concerned.
Medical & Health Services
In the field of Medical and Health Services we now have in the White Paper
published in July a realistic and forward looking framework for future
development, and I am most grateful to Sir Albert RODRIGUES and the Medical
Development Advisory Committee for all
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 15
the work they put in. I am also grateful for the comments and advice from
professional bodies and the public.
The proposals in the White Paper and the accompanying work that has been
done, now provide a framework within which co-ordinated progress has been
charted over a ten year period. They envisage the construction of new hospitals
and clinics, the extension of Medical and Health Services to the new towns and
the New Territories, measures to relieve overcrowding in Government hospitals
and to make fuller use of beds in Government-assisted hospitals, more specialist
treatment particularly for psychiatric patients and the elderly, and a general
improvement in standards wherever practicable.
But the point I wish to make today—and I will be returning to it in
connection with other major programmes—is that this programme has been
prepared in a way which will enable us to go forward in an orderly series of
progressive and inter-related steps year by year, with each step costed and given
its priority. The scale of this programme has been based on the best assessment
now possible of the resources likely to be available. It will be subject to regular
review each year. As well as indicating what we hope at present to be able to
achieve, the plan also provides guidelines within which flexibility can be applied
according to rational priorities if necessary, and if more or less resources are
available than seem likely now, or if the needs of the Medical and Health
Services change, as to some extent they are bound to do over a ten year period.
Before leaving medical services, I should like to say something of one or
two areas in which the Government has now become more directly involved.
Unregistrable Doctors
The question of non-Commonwealth medical graduates, the socalled
unregistrable doctors, has aroused lively public interest. We should not underestimate the complexity of some of the issues involved however simply and
forcefully they may be argued by their protagonists. What we now need is
authoritative unbiased advice on which the community can rely. I am sure that
this is exactly what we can expect from Sir Ronald HOLMES and his working
party.
Narcotic Addiction
I mentioned last year the formation of the Medical and Health Department's
new division to develop and co-ordinate programmes for the treatment and
rehabilitation of drug addicts.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 16
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
Two pilot methadone substitution projects are being conducted by the
Medical Department and the Discharged Prisoners' Aid Society. Both have
been operating for almost two years and they are to continue for a further year.
The rather encouraging results obtained so far have been carefully checked and
compared with what is being done in other parts of the world.
One of the world's foremost experts in this form of drug treatment will
arrive in Hong Kong towards the end of this year to help us to evaluate further
these two projects and to plot the way ahead for this form of therapy and its
proper relationship to other forms of drug treatment.
As I see it, our objective must be to couple the most vigorous and ruthless
attack on the means of supply of drugs, with provision of a means of treatment
that can be made available en masse to addicts. Nothing but frustration can
result from denial of the drug without offering treatment, or from offering
treatment without denying the drug, or at least making it so scarce as to be
prohibitively expensive. You will have noted the growing success of the attack
on supply of drugs. This results both from improved methods here and
improved liaison abroad. But the means of treatment present an even more
difficult problem. However if our pilot projects are judged successful we will
have at our disposal a therapy for addiction that is much cheaper than present
methods, need not involve incarceration, and consequently can be applied en
masse and with minimum disruption of an addict's daily life or earning capacity.
So far, as I say, the experts have been encouraged. But in this field there are
many pitfalls. Before we launch out into the provision of facilities for treatment
on the massive scale that would be necessary to have real impact, we must be
absolutely sure that we are working on lines of proven reliability.
Meanwhile I am conscious of the importance attached to this issue by
honourable Members. Might I add what a relief it is now to have advice on
these complex medical, social and police issues co-ordinated and centralized
through a body as strong as the Action Committee Against Narcotics as now
constituted, with its own secretariat and Commissioner, and under the vigorous
and distinguished chairmanship of Sir Albert RODRIGUES.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 17
Family Planning
When I addressed this Council last year the integration of a family planning
service into our maternal and child health programme was just starting. Let me
say it has made excellent progress.
By the end of this year, the family services will be offered in a total of 37
Government clinics and additionally at 32 locations manned by the Family
Planning Association. This coverage will be further expanded next year.
Your Government is very conscious of the social and financial implications
of excessive population growth. Our first objective has been to see that there
are enough clinics conveniently available to all members of the public. Once
we have reached that point, and we are getting near it, we will be in a position to
concentrate on bringing home to the public the benefits to be derived from using
these clinics. I am aware of proposals going much further than this, for fiscal
and other discrimination against large families. The Government has an open
mind on this, but I am sure honourable Members would agree that such a course
should only be considered after the results can be seen of other action to secure
our ends by educational and voluntary means.
Immigration
The work of family planning is obviously vital if our plans for improvement
in standards of life are to have the effect intended. So too is the level of
immigration. Hong Kong's net gain by migration last year is believed to have
been over 60,000 of whom the bulk came from China either legally or illegally.
Though the numbers have been brought down substantially from the high level of
September last year, they remain too high, and discussion of this mutual problem
with the Chinese Government continues.
Transport
The Green Paper on Transport
A green paper was published in June setting out for public comment proposals
for dealing with Hong Kong's transport problems. A comprehensive transport
study, in which the problem will be quantified on the basis of data from wide
ranging surveys, is now in its final stages and is expected to produce results for
policy guidance early next year. These results, together with the public's reactions
to the green paper, will provide material for the preparation next year of a definitive
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 18
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
White Paper on transport. This will give firm indications on how the
Government intends to cope with Hong Kong's transport needs over the years
ahead.
The Mass Transit Railway
The green paper envisaged that a major role should be played by a mass
transit railway. Your Government still holds to this view, provided agreement
can be reached on the basis of the specified price at which the railway is
calculated to be commercially viable. Doubts have recently been expressed as
to the wisdom of continuing with this project in present circumstances. I would
have thought it apparent that what was judged an acceptable proposition a year
ago, at the same price is an acceptable proposition now. There is a tide in such
affairs, and if we miss this one it will be some years before we could float the
project again. Moreover, we have every right to have confidence in our future;
the project is still judged to be within our resources; the Financial Secretary and
his team have put an immense amount of work into the intricate and technical
work of negotiating the contract; and provided they can do so at the specified
price, I am sure we should all heartily wish them success.
The Bus Companies
Detailed negotiations have been conducted over the past months with both
the Kowloon Motor Bus Company and the China Motor Bus Company with a
view to agreeing revised franchises for their operations. The discussions have
now produced agreement on detailed schedules of services, route-by-route for
1975-76 together with the numbers of buses to be provided to achieve acceptable
frequencies. Plans for bus capacity looking ahead to the year 1980 have also
been agreed. I hope that these discussions will lead to final agreement between
the Government and the two companies under which new franchises can be
granted to commence next February. An essential element in these would have
to be direct Government participation in the direction of the Companies' affairs
through representation on their Boards of Directors.
The Kowloon - Canton Railway
New passenger rolling stock has been delivered to the Kowloon-Canton
Railway and double-tracking between Hung Horn and Sha Tin will commence
shortly. A review of the future development of
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 19
the railway has also been undertaken, and I hope that these improvements I have
referred to will prove to be only the first steps in establishing it on the one hand
as a modem suburban railway, linking urban Kowloon with the New Territories,
and on the other as an improved communication link with China for freight and
passengers alike.
Roads
This year there has been a sharp increase in expenditure on new roads and
the intention is that an average of $350 million (at 1974 prices) will be spent on
roads in each of the next four financial years, and this compares with an average
of less than $130 million during the three preceding years.
All these developments indicate that your Government is putting a great
deal of effort and priority into measures to cope with Hong Kong's growing
transport needs, and that this effort will be continued and intensified in the years
to come.
Industrial Land
Honourable Members have frequently urged the need to provide more land
for industry, and for more land-intensive industry as well as that in high-rise
buildings. This your Government entirely accepts. The first steps along the
path have now been taken with the provision of land on special terms to two new
industries in Tsing Yi. In the long term I believe the eventual answer is, as it
were, to expand the harbour westwards by developing the north shore of Lantau
for industry by means of a bridge from the mainland. But though planning for
this now is essential, it is a very large project and in the nature of things its
impact could not be felt before the '80s. For the immediate future more rapid
action is necessary, and your Government believes that the right answer is to
establish industrial estates along the lines of those found so successful elsewhere.
With this in mind a feasibility study has been commissioned for Junk Bay, and
similar studies are far advanced of much easier sites at Tai Po and Yuen Long.
These projects will be given high priority. The amount of land planned for
ordinary industrial development in the New Towns is also being reconsidered. I
think it essential that in this period when there is slack in the construction and
engineering industries we should press on with work that will make Hong Kong
a more attractive place for investment when the upturn in the financial climate of
the world comes again, as come it will.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 20
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
Building
We must also do what we can meanwhile to encourage building. Clearly
the Government has an obligation to ensure that new building conforms with
planning, safety and other requirements. But at this time it is more than ever
necessary that these checks should not avoidably hold up the putting in hand of
new work. I have therefore directed that further efforts should be made to
streamline procedures to ensure swifter transaction of business about land and
buildings. I am particularly concerned that projects which are known to have
ready sources of finance at this time and whose backers are ready and anxious to
proceed should be subjected to the minimum of delay, and I think that if
necessary special procedures to ensure this must be adopted for the time being.
Social Welfare
I now wish to refer briefly to the development of our social welfare services.
The Secretary for Social Services will no doubt be speaking at greater length
later in the debate.
This has been a year of consolidation following the introduction last year of
many new schemes and projects in the context of the White Paper and Five Year
Plan. The first full annual review of the Five Year Plan has now been
completed. The joint planning and consultative machinery between the
Government and the voluntary sector continues to work satisfactorily and it is
now supplemented by procedures to evaluate the effectiveness of the services
provided by subvented organizations with a view to improving both quality and
organization.
Good overall progress has been made with the development of social
welfare services but a few points do deserve special mention.
First the Institute for Social Work Training. This has now completed a full
year of operation. Might I add that if anyone has doubts about the ability of
Hong Kong to produce young people of the right calibre to man the social
services that are being planned, let them visit the Institute. They will find it a
stimulating and encouraging experience.
Legislation to control and regulate the operation of child care centres has
been prepared and will be introduced into this Council very shortly.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 21
Community and youth officers have been appointed to all districts in the
urban areas, and work is well advanced to establish the scheme in the New
Territories.
18 months after its introduction the disability and infirmity allowance
scheme is providing regular allowances to 50,000 elderly and severely disabled
persons. The rate of benefit under this scheme and the public assistance scheme
are reviewed regularly in the light of the cost of living and two increases have
been made this year bringing the rates up to 62% above the base-rate of April
1972.
Work has begun on the drafting of a programme plan for rehabilitation to
co-ordinate and guide the efforts of the Government departments and many
voluntary bodies which are active in this field.
These are just a few examples of what is happening, but honourable
Members may be reassured to know that broadly speaking we are on the course
mapped out in the Social Welfare Five Year Plan, and that we expect to continue
so next year.
Taken with the free or very heavily subsidized medical and health services
and education, our social welfare services are intended to ensure that the
unfortunate in our city are provided for until they can stand on their own feet
again. The public assistance scheme is an essential part of these services. For
reasons which I will explain later I do not anticipate any dramatic increase in the
load that the scheme will have to carry. But anyone who takes a less optimistic
view of our prospects than I do can rest assured that this scheme is now
sufficiently strong and sufficiently well developed to be capable of expansion or
adaptation to meet any unforeseen contingency.
Anglo-Chinese Relations
Before turning to the state of our economy, might I say how satisfactory it is
to see the steady improvement in recent years of Sino-British relations. They
has made possible the friendly co-operation about matters of mutual interest
which is so greatly to the benefit of Hong Kong.
The Economy
And now I turn to our economic prospects. While these are nothing like as
bad as the prophets of doom would have us believe, we are obviously in a
difficult period and we cannot say with any accuracy precisely how long it will
last.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 22
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
At the time I spoke to you last year the gross domestic product was
increasing, in real terms, at an annual rate of some 7-8%, just a little above the
growth rate which it is believed can be sustained in the longer term. Since this
was against the then background of international exchange rate variations,
commodity shortages overseas, and an almost unbelievably rapid rate of world
inflation, it represented a truly remarkable achievement by our manufacturers
and exporters.
It is true that this was not without some slackening of demand in the labour
market, and there were in consequence some whose personal circumstances were
a good deal less rosy than the performance of the economy as a whole might
have suggested. Nevertheless, Hong Kong's competitive position was
extremely strong and a good deal stronger than a year or two earlier. This
carried the possibility, even probability, that our exports would continue to grow
at a rapid rate. There was, therefore, good reason to believe that the demand for
labour would rise again and with it wage levels. Furthermore, consumer prices,
in the autumn of 1973, were already showing signs of levelling-off (even falling
in some instances) and so at that time there was every reason to expect a further
improvement in living standards in 1974 across the whole spectrum of society.
But then, and quite unexpectedly, came the oil crisis. The world economy
was knocked off course. After making allowance for the impact on the
economy of the new circumstances, by last February it was thought that the gross
domestic product in 1974 would increase after all, in real terms by some 4%.
Whilst this was substantially less than might otherwise have been the case, it was
still by no means insignificant.
The oil shortage in Hong Kong was fairly brief and of little real significance
and our industrialists adapted to the situation of shortages and changes in the
supplies and prices of oil-based raw materials with their usual speed. Our
external trade continued to be buoyant in the first half of this year and in the
twelve months to June 1974, domestic exports were over 8½% more in volume
than in the previous twelvemonth period.
But it has gradually become clear that the enormous rise in the price of oil,
attempts by some other commodities to follow suit, balance of payments
problems, lack of liquidity, high interest rates, have all together produced a
situation in the rest of the world that will take time to solve, and that a period of
adjustment is inevitable. It is also
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 23
inevitable, and already evident, that during this period the growth of world trade
overall will not be as rapid as we have become accustomed to in recent years.
However, these interconnected problems are of such great importance for the
world's economies, and I might add the world's electorates, that at least we have
the assurance that they are receiving maximum attention from governments, and
that the best brains available everywhere are working on them. The problems
involved are of course new to both creditors and debtors alike. But in so far as
there have been any recent developments they have been in the right direction.
There has at least been no further dramatic rise in the price of oil, and the
beginnings of a process of recycling of oil revenues can be discerned. Provided
there is no setback, one can reasonably expect that in due course these tendencies
will develop, with oil prices stabilizing, the process of recycling gaining
momentum and finding new institutional channels, interest rates declining from
their present levels, and generally speaking an easing of current constrictions on
investment and demand.
Meanwhile, as I have said, a period of adjustment is inevitable. But it is
exceedingly difficult to forecast how Hong Kong will fare in this period of
adjustment because so many factors are new and relatively unknown and
virtually all are outside our control. Certainly Hong Kong cannot hope to avoid
some of the consequences of a slowing down in world trade. The rate of growth
of the volume of our exports has declined in recent months. We know that
manufacturing employment here, and in many cases take-home pay, has been
falling. Even allowing for normal seasonal variations in trade it is not
conceivable that the figure for the growth of exports during this calendar year
will be as high as the corresponding figure I quoted for the twelve months to
June.
It is unlikely that 1973 levels of employment will be regained this year.
One can at least be thankful that incomes are not being eaten away by inflation in
quite the same way as they were last year; but I am afraid it would be wrong to
assume that the external inflationary pressures of the last year have finished
working their way through our economy, or that there will not be further ones
this year.
But if we look dispassionately at the international economic situation we
may see in it elements from which Hong Kong may draw some encouragement.
We are not at all facing a situation of slump like that in the ’20s or early ’30s. The
level of economic intervention by the governments of the developed world is now
so great, and the channels of international co-operation so extensive, and the political
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 24
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
pressures on governments to avoid excessively deflationary situations so strong,
that a recession in any of our markets in the developed world is unlikely to
assume an extreme form. During the down-turn now in existence, the
purchasing power of the populations of developed countries is continuing at a
comparatively high level. While demand for some products, and in particular
cars and consumer durables, is being affected, the course of demand for the sort
of things that Hong Kong exports is much more difficult to gauge. One should
not assume that because a family in the United States or Europe will economize
by keeping an old car instead of buying a new one, or will put off buying a house,
it will also put off buying clothes, or radios, or toys, or cameras. Moreover the
down-turn is not evenly spread throughout our markets. No doubt our exporters
will face increased competition, and perhaps difficulties over finance, but there is
a fair hope that in our markets as a whole a sufficiently healthy demand will
continue to keep Hong Kong busy.
And on our side things will not be standing still. Our industrialists with
their usual enterprise will be searching the world's markets for contracts, and you
may be sure that the Trade Development Council will be doing everything within
its power to help them find new openings and expand old ones. The
Government for its part, and with the support of Her Majesty's Government, will
continue to do all that determined negotiation can to ease restrictions on our trade
and resist attempts at further impositions. The prospects of maintaining our
exports are favourable because Hong Kong's productivity is now high and our
competitive position abroad is very strong, indeed as strong as it has ever been,
so we are in a position to supply what demand there is now, and to respond very
quickly to any increase in demand in the future. Provided we retain this
competitive edge I expect Hong Kong to ride the current problems with less
trouble than most other countries. I certainly expect the economy to continue to
grow, and the Financial Secretary's estimate made last February of a growth rate
of 4% in real terms still looks the most probable outcome for this year. There
are not many industrial countries in the world that could say the same.
If I might say so Hong Kong is so accustomed to growth that is phenomenal,
that we should guard against too pessimistic a reaction to growth that is, by
comparative standards, merely enviable.
Review of Government Programmes
This is the background against which we have been taking stock.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 25
During the last two years, as honourable Members know, we have prepared
long-range plans covering the next 10 years for what we want to do in the major
fields of Government spending—housing, education, medical and health services,
social welfare. To these must be added other plans, already fairly precise,
covering expenditure on the expansion of the road system, the Kowloon-Canton
Railway, the mass transit project, the police, the prisons and the fire services.
Other comparatively new fields have been opened up such as community
relations and countryside amenities, and though these are comparatively cheap,
they all add to the total bill.
Taken individually, the broad objectives of each initial draft programme
were believed to be probably within our resources on certain assumptions, and
these assumptions of course included a reasonable degree of flexibility from year
to year as the economic circumstances of Hong Kong might change. But
though the impact of all these programmes on the budget in the immediately
following year, that is to say 74-75, presented no large problem, it was only when
all were in a reasonably complete form, and could be assembled to provide a
forecast of likely expenditure if all were carried out exactly in accordance with
departmental estimates, that it was possible to assess their real financial
implications for the years ahead. It was necessary to see them all before there
was any firm base from which to examine the priority of each separate plan and
the details of each separate plan itself, given that our resources were limited. In
other words it was only at this point that realistic appraisal, review and drafting
of these programmes became possible.
It would have been necessary to carry out this process of re-examination in
any case, even against the background of a buoyant revenue with a large surplus
to the budget, and with economic prospects that were clear for all to see. In the
event the re-examination was undertaken against the background of the economic
situation which I have described, which, though by no means bad, is certainly not
easy to predict with precision. We are also now aware of the possibility of a
budget deficit this year, though there is nothing particularly alarming about this
in itself. However, all in all, the circumstances in which we now are, require us
to adopt a prudent and careful approach to expenditure in the following years. I
am particularly concerned at the trend of recurrent expenditure which has been
rising at a rate not far short of 20% annually in recent years. I doubt whether it
need be as high as this if we in the public service were as productivity-conscious
as our counterparts in industry. But it is on our capital works programmes that I
wish to concentrate today.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 26
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
You will remember that earlier this year the Financial Secretary, having
reviewed departmental estimates and forecasts relating to capital works of all
sorts, told us that, after allowing for all additional resources from the borrowing
and taxation that he considered realistic, there was a short-fall of $1,960 million,
or 1/5 of the total estimates for the forecast period from 1975-76 to '77-78
inclusive. Having regard to the nature of the departmental estimates as I have
described them, there was nothing very daunting about this discrepancy, and
during the succeeding months the Secretariat has systematically subjected them
to scrutiny and the imposition of orders of priority. In this process one of the
priorities has been to ensure progress on housing and the new towns, and in
practice a balance has also been held between spending on the new towns and in
the old urban areas. But having accorded housing and new towns a priority of
their own, it was also decided that a very high priority should go to projects
which facilitate the growth and earning potential of industry and provide exportorientated jobs. High priority was also given to self-liquidating projects, which
provide a significant revenue return-for instance the provision of land. It
followed from this philosophy for instance that the Highways Office should
proceed immediately with the Tuen Mun motor road, because it must be on this
that the industrial and residential development of not only Tuen Mun itself must
be based, but also that of the whole Yuen Long plain. Similarly it followed that
the Engineering Office should give priority to the provision of infrastructure for
urban and industrial development. It was the same approach that accorded top
priority to development work at Kai Tak, and to works connected with the mass
transit railway.
The New Towns
Since the new towns and housing in the old urban areas will take a large
slice of the cake, and since the method of handling the problems involved gives a
clear indication of your Government's general approach, let me explain what has
been done and what is proposed. Taking the old urban areas first, where much
of the essential social and physical infrastructure already exists, the housing
programme envisages expenditure of $140 million this year, $200 million next,
and $250 million in each of the following three years. This will largely use up
developable sites in the old areas.
Expenditure on the new towns including infrastructure, housing, public
buildings, including of course schools, clinics and so on, is
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 27
planned to rise from $280 million to $740 million next year and nearly $1,000
million in ’76-77, and to continue thereafter at rather above that level. The rate
of build-up, at least in these initial years, has been dictated not so much by
financial considerations, since these figures are well within the Financial
Secretary's guidelines, as by physical constraints-the simple problems of design,
letting of contracts, site formation, and getting on with such large volumes of
work.
Nevertheless these figures are very large, and your Government has felt it
right to build flexibility into its plans. Consequently the plans for each of the
new towns have been divided into small units which are constructionally and
socially and economically viable in themselves. For each of the towns as a
whole development programmes have been prepared embodying these units or
packages. The programmes will be submitted to the Public Works SubCommittee at the November review as background documents, but they also are
working documents to be referred to when considering individual projects at
future reviews, and they indicate the time at which action on each project must
be taken if the proposed timetable is to be kept. We hope in this way that the
towns can be developed in a balanced way whether in the years ahead our
resources suggest that the rate of construction should be slower at one time or
faster at another.
Housing
The Housing Authority has been up-dating its building programme in close
consultation with the New Towns Project Managers. Contracts now let
throughout Hong Kong will provide housing for up to 100,000 more people in
1975-76 and 140,000 in 1976-77. It would be wrong to give precise figures
thereafter because completions will depend on so many factors, including
clearance and site formation, that cannot be foreseen at present. But broadly
speaking we intend the figures gradually and no doubt with some irregularity to
rise to the 200,000 mark. Meanwhile we may look forward confidently to
progressive improvement in the housing situation over the next five years.
When our objective will be achieved of a self-contained home in a decent
environment for all will depend on many things, including the rate and type of
construction in the private sector and, of course, the rate of natural growth of the
population and of immigration. But certainly by 1984, ten years from now, the
situation will have been completely transformed.
I should emphasize that this problem can only be solved by steady planned
and persistent construction over a long period of time. This your Government
and the new Housing Authority are now geared to
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 28
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
maintain. I reaffirm our determination to press ahead steadily with the work,
for as long as is necessary, until this defect in our society is removed.
It is not just a matter of quantity and I am very pleased to note the various
improvements which the Authority is building into its new estates. The Oi Man
Estate is a fine example of what can be done economically to improve public
housing standards and also of the shape of things to come. The layout of the
Authority's estates now being built in the new towns should make them attractive
and pleasant places to live in.
The need for temporary housing is regrettably still with us, and programmes
are going ahead for building new licensed areas, but to much higher standards
than before, and funds have been provided recently to improve conditions in the
older licensed areas by installing proper electricity and water supplies.
Nevertheless I am sure that all of us long for the day when the production of
houses will be sufficient to enable the Authority systematically to set about the
housing of the inmates of such areas in proper permanent accommodation, and
not only when the sites are required for development.
I would like to record my gratitude to members of the Housing Authority
for all their efforts. This is a time for sound and imaginative planning and
policy formation, and I know how much demand it has made on the Housing
Authority's members.
I am concerned about the number of old tenement buildings which remain
undeveloped and are unlikely to be developed by private enterprise. The
Housing Society has been preparing detailed proposals for the redevelopment of
a number of these old properties, and has been assured of Government's
administrative and financial support. Meantime, the Society continues to plan
new estates in new town areas, and I would like to express my appreciation to its
members under the chairmanship of Sir Douglas CLAGUE for the time and energy
they devote to this very valuable work.
Private developers are a very important source of new housing and we wish
to encourage the maximum amount of private housing construction. While I
appreciate the problems they face, particularly in financing new schemes, I hope
very much that private developers will see the advantages of making new
investments in housing now, when land prices have fallen and building
contractors have more capacity.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 29
It is interesting to note the confidence in Hong Kong's future displayed by
overseas interests at this time; for instance negotiations are currently proceeding
with a major overseas group for the development of a large new residential area
at Sha Tin, to house over 30,000 people on a site of about 50 acres. It is this
sort of vision that pays off, for there is an enormous requirement for housing
which cannot possibly be satisfied in full for many years to come, if ever.
Education
The White Paper
In elaborating proposals for your approval in the Public Works Programme
and Housing Programme your Government has attempted to combine tenacity of
purpose on broad objectives, with provision for realistic flexibility. In the
White Paper on Education tabled today you will see the same approach. The
paper is a statement of policy and the measures described in it represent an
enterprise of some magnitude which will prove a challenge and a stimulus to all
concerned. The goal is to provide a three-year secondary course for all in the
shortest time possible. If certain assumptions are fulfilled this could be as early
as 1979-a much shorter time than that envisaged in the original Green Paper.
By that date it is judged possible to train the extra teachers required, but it
certainly would not be possible to provide the number of new schools necessary
if secondary schools were to be uni-sessional, because the money is not available
to build schools for all the places required in the time, nor, if there were, would it
be physically possible to do so. The objective is provision of assisted secondary
education for all, but unless many children are to be denied this for many more
years there will have to be a transitional period during which the school buildings
we have and can construct are used much more intensively than at present. The
technique for this, for which the White Paper has opted, is flotation coupled with
an extended day. It is realized that this is not an ideal solution, and must in
consequence only be a transitional one, but I believe it to be a realistic
compromise between the over-riding requirement for immediate speed, and the
eventual ideal solution of uni-sessional secondary education.
As in other programmes, each step that must be taken year by year has been
mapped out and costed so that the implications for the whole programme of the
financial decisions that must be taken each year can be clearly seen. The
figures are large and only in this way can flexibility be considered, if the need
arises, on a proper and rational basis.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 30
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
Later in this debate the Director of Education will be expanding on the
policy set out in the White Paper. But there are one or two points about it I
would like to make myself. The first is about the decision to drop the
recommendation in the Green Paper to make one fifth of junior secondary
schools pre-vocational and instead to make 20-25% of the curriculum of all
junior secondary schools practical/ technical. I know how passionately some
maintain the value of prevocational junior secondary schools. Certainly such
schools have a continuing role and certainly the Government will continue to
assist all those already in existence. But it was considered wrong in principle
that a general educational system should be based on a separation of children at
the early age of 11½ or 12 years into those who would receive pre-vocational and
those who would receive grammar school secondary education. The White
Paper's view is that all children will benefit equally up to the age of 14 from
elements of both grammar school education and technical/ practical training, and
that eventual separation of the two streams should be left as late as possible, so as
to give children as long a time as possible in which to show in which direction
their natural ability lies. We are all very conscious of the need to improve
technical aptitude, but we believe that this is likely to be more securely built on
the basis of a general education, including of course a technical element, up to
the age of 14.
Thereafter there will be ample means of implanting and extending technical
education. The proposal is that eventually 40% of senior secondary places will
be in technical forms. For those who do not reach senior secondary schools,
there will be apprenticeship schemes coupled with the services of the five
technical institutes, and for the most talented students, there will be the
Polytechnic.
With the provision of secondary places for all primary school leavers, the
need for the Secondary School Entrance Examination will disappear, and if the
programme outlined in the White Paper can be adhered to this examination will
be set for the last time in May 1978.
Ultimately it is proposed to introduce a new examination for a Hong Kong
Junior Certificate of Education to be sat at the end of the junior secondary course
as a record of attainment, and as a method of selection for the senior secondary
course. But I hasten to add that the proposal is to phase the introduction so that
no child will have to sit both examinations. I would like to record my thanks to
Mr P. C. WOO and the Board of Education for all the work and expertise they
have contributed to this new look at our secondary educational system.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 31
The Universities
I should mention that the recommendations of the University and
Polytechnic Grants Committee for the current universities quadrennium 1974-
1978, and for the first two years of the development programme of the Hong
Kong Polytechnic, were received and considered by the Government and funds
approved accordingly. Hong Kong University and the Chinese University
should reach a projected student enrolment of 8,850 by 1978.
Polytechnic
The Hong Kong Polytechnic has prepared impressive plans for a new
campus at Hung Hom, and funds for Phase I have been agreed. This will permit
the Polytechnic's expansion to reach a full time equivalent of approximately
6,000 students by 1976. Thereafter Phases Ⅱ and III of the development plan
will take the Polytechnic onwards to the ultimate objective of a student body of
at least 8,000 and possibly as much as 10,000 full time equivalent students. The
Government and the University and Polytechnic Grants Committee will be
discussing the Polytechnic Development Plan again early in 1975, and I therefore
do not wish to comment further at this stage. But I would like to record that the
Board of Governors and staff of the Polytechnic have already made a most
impressive start, and we expect this institution to make a major contribution to
tertiary education in Hong Kong.
Summary of the approach to stock-taking and its outcome
Honourable Members will deduce from what I have said about our major
programmes what your Government's approach is at this time. It is one of
determination, but of prudent and hard-headed determination, to press on towards
the objectives which honourable Members have constantly supported: but to
prepare and plan the way to these objectives so that we may increase or decrease
the speed of our advance in accordance with the rate at which our resources
expand, and to do this smoothly in accordance with predetermined interlocking
priorities.
During this year much time and effort have been spent on refining this
principle of stock-taking, and on defining priorities across the whole field of capital
expenditure. I believe this to have been extremely beneficial, and that the machinery
established to do it—and of course to keep on doing it because in the nature of
things this is a continuing exercise—has made the Government more efficient, more
flexible and more finely tuned. Indeed it would be quite unrealistic without it to
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 32
[HE THE GOVERNOR]
embark on the sort of transformation of life in Hong Kong which is now being
charted in so many fields.
The aim to which we all subscribe of expanding and providing services up
to the realistic limit of our resources, requires a much more precise idea of what
the expenditure and the services and the resources will be over a comparatively
long period of time, because the decisions of today are inevitably locking us in to
the decisions of tomorrow.
However we have now been through all this, we have taken stock, we know
much better where we stand and where we are able to go and how fast, and
where we might draw back if our resources fall short or accelerate if they
unexpectedly expand. It will be for the Financial Secretary to spell out the figures
next February, in the light of all the circumstances as they have developed.
But honourable Members will have realized even from the broad terms in
which I have spoken today, how much we believe is within our resources as now
assessed.
Carefully conceived plans for housing, secondary and tertiary education,
medical and health services, and social welfare are all going forward. So too
will the negotiations for the contract for a mass transit railway. We are able to
proceed with an extensive urban road programme, and with linking the New
Towns with the urban areas by the Tuen Mun motor road to the west, and the
twin Lion Rock tunnels and the double tracking of the Kowloon-Canton Railway
to the east. We expect to start on the construction of new industrial estates.
The private sector too will be embarking on some dramatic projects such as the
new berths for the Kwai Chung container terminal and the Kai Tak cargo
terminal and of course many others too numerous to mention.
While parts of this address may have struck a note of uncharacteristic
caution, I am greatly encouraged by the fact that this whole process of careful
and detailed stock-taking, which has occupied 'so much of our time this year, has
confirmed our ability, as things stand at present, and with the continuing support
of honourable Members, broadly to see through our programmes. I am
impressed not by the degree of rephasing that has been deemed prudent, but by
the broad front of improvement on which we think it right and realistic to
advance.
 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL—16th October 1974 33
The scale of all this should be appreciated because it is an indication of our
confidence in the future. It is also important for the economy and the provision
of employment that this scale of advance and this level of activity and investment
by the Government and the private sector alike should be steadily and smoothly
maintained.
Honourable Members, I have tended to speak today in economic or
administrative terms, but it is of course of people that I think, of the industrialist,
striving for contracts and finance, of the worker striving to maintain his
livelihood and that of his family. These people are the true, the principal asset
of Hong Kong. I have watched with admiration the ability, ingenuity and
realism people in Hong Kong have shown in the difficult year that has passed,
and with these qualities I am sure we will weather the year ahead.