INTRODUCTION
The Role of the Legislative Council
1 Before commencing my address I should first like to welcome the new Members. They
bring with them a wide and diverse knowledge of many levels and aspects of Hong Kong’s
society and economy. They have joined an organ of Government that is constitutionally
unique in its many roles of forum for debate, the enactment of laws and ombudsman,
accessible to the public whether to hear complaints or give advice. The access that all
Unofficial Members of Executive and Legislative Councils have both to officials and to
confidential official papers, in itself distinguishes them from members of any other
legislature I have known. I am glad that in recent years these roles have been strengthened
not only by a large expansion of membership, but also by the support of a strong UMELCO
Office, provision of better accommodation, and allowances for Members, and that a closer
scrutiny of legislation and a better service to the public has resulted. Hong Kong owes a
very great deal to the great volume of work done by Members, and to the disinterested and
often unpublicised devotion with which they do it, and I believe that this is becoming more
generally appreciated. I would like to pay my tribute to this work without which the
Government of Hong Kong could not be carried on and with which Hong Kong has so
significantly prospered.
2 I would also like to extend my good wishes to the new Senior Unofficial Member. He
certainly has a mettlesome and lively team. But so too does the new Chief Secretary to
whom also I should like to extend my congratulations and good wishes.
The Scheme of the Speech
3 This session opens in a period of continuing uncertainty and disappointing growth
levels in the economics of the great overseas countries on whose markets Hong Kong
depends, and when our exporters are having to contend with the new restrictions imposed
on our exports last year. Nevertheless with Hong Kong’s extraordinary enterprise and
adaptability we have maintained a reasonable level of exports and an unexpectedly high
growth rate, a comparatively low rate of inflation, virtually nil unemployment, and rapidly
rising real income. I will revert to the economy later in this address since there are dark or
obscure passages in this otherwise bright picture. Nevertheless as the Financial Secretary
recently rightly pointed out, for the time being we continue to prosper. Against this fairly
encouraging background my main theme will be your Government’s plans for Hong Kong
as this decade ends and the 80s begin.
4 The importance of these long-term goals cannot be over-emphasised. Obviously what
can be done from year to year must be a matter of judgment in the light of human and
financial resources available and the economic conjuncture in which we find ourselves. But
it is vital that this should be against the background of agreed long-term goals towards
which we all know
8 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―11 October 1978
that we are working, and of a known timescale within which we think it realistic to hope to
reach them, provided our normal growth-rate is maintained and economic equilibrium is not
lost.
5 But first I will cover subjects that are of special interest, but which do not fit into a
review of development plans; then go on to describe our economic prospects as I see them,
because it is on these that anything and everything that your Government can ever do
depend; and then finally speak of our plans for the future.
The Public Service
6 The achievement of our plans, and indeed the whole conduct of Government depends
very largely upon the efforts of the Public Service. The Public Service has been under
particular pressure because of the rapid expansion of Government activity in parallel with,
and indeed as a reflection of, the development of Hong Kong itself. This expansion and this
pressure will continue because as none knows better than members of the Public Service,
there is a lot to be done, but I should hope that the expansion of the Service, its steady rise
in the level of experience of its members, and the progressive achievement of our major
targets, should reduce this pressure within the next four or five years. Before moving to the
body of my speech I should once more like to record my thanks and admiration to the
serving Members for their commitment and enthusiasm, no less than for what they
accomplish.
7 Over the next year particular efforts will be made to improve staff management and
career development, staff relations, training and the machinery for settling pay and structure
problems. It will also be possible to finalise the current review of the policies on housing
and leave for civil servants― including of course members of the disciplined services.
GENERAL TOPICS
Sino/British Relations
8 I will start with a word about Sino/British relations. They continue to be very good,
and they are good specifically over Hong Kong, and we know well the friendly and helpful
attitude of Chinese officials stationed in Hong Kong.
Water from Kwangtung
9 This has been manifested in many ways ― investment, improvement in
communications and so on―but the one of most immediate interest to Members will be the
recent agreement of the Kwangtung Water Authority to increase the supply of water from
the East River by 33% by 1982. This will involve them in substantial expenditure and
considering that the charge for this water has been unchanged at HK$1.26 per thousand
gallons since 1964 it is entirely reasonable that they should have proposed to increase the
charge to HK$1.88 from 1 October this year and that your Government
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―11 October 1978 9
should have agreed. I should add that at the new charge this water will still be very much
cheaper than any new source within Hong Kong and water charges to the public will not be
affected. An agreement will shortly be signed, probably in Canton.
10 This cover increases up to February 1983. But we have also explained to the
Kwangtung Water Authority what our long-term requirements will be. These are large and
to supply them from Kwangtung would require substantial engineering work and very
considerable resources. However the Authority has agreed to consider our long-term
requirements and to discuss what might be done in about a year’s time; that is to say before
we would have to commence any other, and of course much costlier, local means of
maintaining the increase in supplies necessary after February 1983. This latter development
is of special significance, since it could very considerably ease one of the major problems
of this community.
11 Though the High Island Dam water scheme, to be opened shortly, will double our
storage capacity, and is a great engineering feat, it exhausts our last major catchment area.
Immigration
12 The high level of immigration into Hong Kong during the last six months has been
worrying, and it looks as if at the present rate we will have about 95,000 immigrants this
year. This is something that must be kept in perspective since the level of migration
changes considerably from year to year, and there is an outflow to other countries as well as
an inflow largely from neighbouring provinces of China. In the five years up to December
1976 the average annual arrivals from China by all means were about 50,000 but Hong
Kong’s overall average net gain by migration was only about 18,000 a year. But last year
the net gain rose to 30,000 and this year, if the current rate is maintained, it could be as high
as 60,000. At this rate two extra very large housing estates, with all accompanying facilities
would be necessary each year if standards were not to be diluted.
13 We have explained both here directly, and through diplomatic channels in Peking and
London, the problems that this rate of influx could present for us if it were allowed to
continue, and I very much hope to see the figures gradually and substantially reduced.
14 We also have a steam of arrivals of a different sort from Vietnam. Over the last two
years we have given permission for nearly 4,300 with some claim on Hong Kong to stay
here. Another 5,300 have been given permission to stay temporarily on an undertaking by
the UN High Commissioner for Refugees to find them a permanent home elsewhere. I
should like to pay my tribute to the excellent work of the High Commissioner and his
Office. Nevertheless this is also a worrying problem, and inevitably we watch with
apprehension the growing number here awaiting resettlement which now stands at 3,670.
10 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―11 October 1978
The Royal Hong Kong Police Force
15 We were all extremely concerned at the state of the Royal Hong Kong Police Force
following the events of last October/November. Though general resentment at ICAC
operations, and the fear of a group of prosecution for past offences, were the immediate
cause, there was obviously more to it than that.
16 At my request the Home Office made available a most experienced team led by Mr
CRANE, one of HM Inspectors of Constabulary, and a thorough investigation of the
organization and administration of Police followed conducted jointly by the Commissioner
and his staff and the Security Branch of the Central Government Secretariat and Mr
CRANE’s team. In broad terms the conclusion was that professionally the Force was
working on the right lines; but that intense preoccupation with the fight against crime and
the rapid expansion, redeployment and reorganization of the Force in recent years to
combat crime, has had a double-edged effect, Success against crime, and in achieving an
improved relationship with the public, has been remarkable. But it has been to some extent
at the expense of administration, man-management, personnel relations and welfare, which
had implications for discipline and control. Simultaneously subjected to the many pressures
of combating a crime wave reorganization, expansion and the weeding out of corruption,
the Force, with the knowledge of hindsight, was somewhat over-criticized, over-driven and
under-administered.
17 Joint recommendations were agreed and are being implemented as quickly as possible.
Much progress has been made in strengthening and reorganizing the Police Headquarters
structure and also in improving inservice training, staff relations, public relations, the
handling of complaints against Police, and in operational deployment and efficiency.
18 The team’s visit has also resulted in a large number of proposals to do with welfare,
living conditions and housing and also facilities for recreation, some of which are
applicable to the Police and some to other or all elements of the public service. A further
point that is under consideration as a result of this enquiry is the extent to which your
Government as a good employer should provide financial assistance towards legal cost
incurred by public servants who are prosecuted for offences allegedly committed when they
are on duty. It is a point of special relevance to the Police. It is vital that procedures should
exist for the quick, expert and impartial investigation of complaints, and the strengthened
Complaints Against the Police Office and the UMELCO Complaints Against the Police
Committee have greatly improved the situation. But we should remember that complaints
are a much higher occupational hazard for Police than for other public servants because
they have the duty of law enforcement on the ground; and counter-charges are all
complaints, are sometimes the only defence a guilty man can make. The culmination of an
investigation which establishes a prima facie case will normally be a prosecution so that the
matter can be examined judicially,
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―11 October 1978 11
and that is right but it heightens the concern of Police who day by day have to confront
criminals on the ground and fear that they may become the victim of malicious accusations.
Despite the care which is taken both in investigation and by the Attorney General’s officers
who have to decide whether to prosecute, your Government considers that the broad public
interest requires that financial assistance for legal representations in court should be
provided.
19 The in-depth study is continuing, and should be completed by January at the latest.
Meanwhile the Force is functioning with marked success, and the downward trends in
crime I reported last year and which are such an improvement over the situation of four or
five years ago, have been maintained. Violent crime has decreased by a further 3% this year
and there has been a further decrease in the number of young offenders. I am sure that here
the extraordinary success of the Junior Police Call with its quarter of a million members,
and the massive efforts being made to improve recreational facilities for all young people
have both played an important part. So too has the co-operation of the public through the
Mutual Aid Committees and the much greater awareness that exists of what citizens can do
to help protect themselves and help the police. Last year 9% of arrests were made by
members of the public―a truly remarkable record.
Narcotics
20 The fight against Hong Kong’s traditional problems of drug addiction and trafficking
continues. Liaison with international agencies, disruption of importation, manufacture and
distribution, erosion of demand by voluntary or compulsory cure, and better education of
the public about the dangers of addiction and the availability of cure, are all having their
effect― particularly since all action is now so closely co-ordinated by the Action
Committee Against Narcotics, supported by the Commissioner for Narcotics. With the
success of the Police in breaking the drug syndicates Hong Kong has ceased to be an
international distribution centre. We can therefore concentrate on our domestic problem.
21 The initial data from the new computerized register of addicts suggests that this
problem may not be quite so large as we had feared. It seems possible that the number of
addicts may be considerably less than 50,000 instead of the previous guesstimate of
100,000.
22 With the large number of voluntary treatment centres now available, and the expansion
of accommodation in compulsory drug addiction treatment centres, the total number of
addicts under compulsory or voluntary treatment or further care at any one time, now
averages between 13,000 and 14,000. This is probably still a little too small a proportion of
the whole, even with the comparatively high success rate achieved in comparison to
elsewhere. Nevertheless there are heartening indicators. For instance the percentage of all
persons entering prison institutions found to be addicted has dropped
12 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―11 October 1978
over the last five years from 73% to 40%―it was a staggering 90% in 1950―and the
percentage amongst those under 21 has dropped over the last five years from nearly 5% to
under 1%.
23 All the indicators now point to a steady containment of the numbers addicted, and to a
reduction of the numbers of young people becoming involved. We have no illusions about
the length of the road to be travelled, or about the dangers of regression if the intensity of
these many-sided endeavours were relaxed, but the situation is at last beginning to look
encouraging.
24 This ferment of purposeful activity in Hong Kong has stimulated considerable
international interest. A steady flow of visitors come to study our methods and the
International Narcotics Control Board’s Report for 1977 referred to the value of Hong
Kong’s experience to the international community.
The ICAC
25 The Independent Commission Against Corruption has continued its successful and
many-sided operation.
26 Since the ‘partial Amnesty’ on 5 November last year the question in many minds has
been whether things would slip back into the bad old ways, in spite of the apparent
determination of the Government not to allow them to do so. The Commissioner assures me
that there is no evidence that anything of the sort has happened, nor has there been any
retrogression as far as syndicated corruption is concerned. We should remember that the
resources of the powerful Operations Department are now freed from delving into the past
and able to concentrate on investigating and monitoring the present. The whole position
within both the public and private sectors is transformed from what it was four or five years
ago. This is an extraordinary achievement in which many have played a part as well as the
ICAC, and in which all of us can take pride.
27 In most other communities there is an element of corruption. Here, where recently
there has been so much public revelation of widescale corruption, we must accept that there
is much more still to be done. There will always be some people ready to indulge in
corruption, and we must therefore be vigilant and equipped to prevent a relapse into the
situation from which we have just extricated ourselves so painfully. This special vigilance
will have to be continued for many years. So there can be no question of relaxing the efforts
of the ICAC, and no question of reducing its strength. But with the high degree of success
already achieved, it will be possible to place increasing emphasis and reliance on the
activities of its Prevention and Community Relations Departments.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―11 October 1978 13
The New Territories: Administrative Reform
28 I spoke last year of the changed face of the New Territories: of the emergence on the
one hand of large new centres of population and industry or of intensive horticulture, and
on the other of the wide use of the rest of the area for recreation and tourism. I described
the new type of regionalized consultation and administration your Government proposed to
set up.
29 The establishment of District Advisory Boards in November last year was an
immediate success. The Boards have been active, insistent and constructive; proposals
affecting the growth and development of each town or region are discussed, and local views
now taken into account at the planning stage before final departmental submissions are
made. The Boards are also making full use of their funds for recreational and cultural
activities and for minor works to improve their towns. They have become the natural
channels for local advice to Government departments. In short they are beginning to
provide the partnership between residents and Government in the development of each
town or region that was so badly needed.
30 Some basic reorganization of the administration in the New Territories is also needed
to ensure that administrative activities are co-ordinated regionally and integrated with the
work of the Boards, so that Government departments can be more directly responsive to
local needs.
31 The reorganization will involve some shift of emphasis from the Head-quarters of
some departments to regional offices in the main centres of population. As this change is
gradually implemented it will probably also affect the role of the Secretary for the New
Territories, so that he will be less involved in the day-to-day administration and more
concerned with broad issues, such as those, for instance, with which the Heung Yee Kuk is
particularly concerned.
32 Regular increases in staff and other resources must be provided to keep pace with
population growth and to maintain the high standards to which the towns in the New
Territories are being built. This will affect many departments but particularly the Public
Works Department, the Urban Services Department and the New Territories
Administration.
33 I should add that the new and flexible arrangements for compensation for resumption
of land should greatly benefit the New Territories and assist development. For this we have
to thank the Committee chaired by Sir Yuet-keung KAN, and the constructive spirit in
which its official and unofficial members worked.
Labour Legislation
34 During the last session steady progress was maintained in the field of labour
legislation. Employers were required to meet the medical expenses of injured workers; a
surcharge on delayed payment of compensation was imposed; the time limit for application
of compensation was extended; and
14 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―11 October 1978
legislation for a silicosis compensation scheme was enacted. Industrial safety was improved
by new controls in the use of boilers and pressure receivers and of lifting appliances.
35 Legislation giving all employees a week’s paid annual leave was brought into force on
1 January. Its operation will be kept under review, but so far it appears to be working well
and achieving its object.
36 New items to be introduced this session include the extension of control of child
employment to the non-industrial sector; the protection of more non-manual workers under
the Employment Ordinance; the control of workers’ safety in the use of electricity; and the
control of fire safety in industry. The working party on the Workmen’s Compensation
Ordinance is continuing its review, and will draw up recommendations soon. I shall leave
the Commissioner for Labour to give details.
37 Our compliance with International Labour Conventions continued to improve. Forty
Conventions have now been applied in full or with modifications. This represents an
increase of 11 since 1974 and we hope to be able to improve our declarations in respect of a
further six by 1980. In this respect Hong Kong compares very favourably with other
countries in this region.
38 Turning to industrial training the newly established clothing industry and construction
industry training centres proved to be popular and successful. The Hong Kong Training
Council has therefore recommended a number of additional training schemes in other
industries to be financed by a general levy, and administered by a statutory training council.
These recommendations are now being considered by the Government. Also on the
recommendation of the Training Council, a further eight trades have been designated under
the Apprenticeship Ordinance during the year.
39 I intend soon to appoint further training boards and specialist committees to enable the
Training Council to extend its activities into the commercial and service sectors.
40 The volume of legislation in recent years and the subsequent work of enforcement is
requiring substantial recruitment of staff―which must be trained and absorbed. I believe
that in this field the first priority now is administrative consolidation.
41 The legislation introduced in recent years has been proposed on its Hong Kong merits.
Our concern is what is beneficial for Hong Kong, its workforce, and its economy as a whole.
Nevertheless it does no harm to keep international comparisons in mind. These are
favourable, and your Government has made very good progress in achieving its target of
broad comparability with the best among neighbouring Asian countries excluding Japan.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―11 October 1978 15
Control of Pollution
42 A word about pollution. Strong tides and winds have so far saved us from the worst
effects of pollution. Nevertheless I am sure that the establishment of the new
Environmental Protection Unit, under its expert Adviser, will have come as a relief to
Honourable Members. This follows the excellent preparatory work of the Environmental
Protection Committee. A series of Ordinances will be drafted to bring under control the
various forms of pollution to which Hong Kong is exposed. Honourable Members may rest
assured that the approach of your Government will be careful and realistic; nevertheless the
sooner a corpus of legislation is on the statute book the better. I hope that it may be possible
to make some progress during this session.
New Developments in the Legal System
43 In July the Attorney General outlined in this Council some experimental measures
being worked out for introduction into the Legal System. They could be of considerable
significance. They were designed firstly to help bridge the communications and
understanding gap that can develop between a Cantonese-speaking population unfamiliar
with the British legal system on the one hand, and a Government operating through British
law and legal procedures on the other; and secondly to assist persons charged with certain
offences in Magistrates’ Courts who are without legal advice.
44 The measures were:―
(i) The Magistrates (Amendment) Bill 1978, which provided for the appointment of
Cantonese-speaking members of the public to sit with magistrates in an advisory
capacity.
(ii) The provision, through the good offices of the Law Society and Bar Association
of rosters of qualified persons to man, firstly a ‘duty lawyer’ scheme in some
Magistrates’ Courts, and secondly a ‘quick legal advice’ scheme in two City
District Offices, in both cases free of charge to the public, with the Government
providing the administrative and clerical back-up and the necessary funds.
45 Though experimental and limited, the schemes have proved complicated to start owing
to the large number of persons involved without the public spirit of many members of the
legal profession they would not have been possible. I now hope they will start operating
early in the New Year when a detailed announcement will be made.
Cultural and Leisure Activities
46 This speech cannot possibly include all the major fields of Government activity. But I
do wish to mention the administration of cultural and leisure activities, because it is a whole
new and important field of Government activity. Though it has been deliberately stimulated
by the Government, Urban Council and voluntary agencies, the scale and speed of
development is extraordinary.
16 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―11 October 1978
47 Let me give some examples. The Hong Kong Philharmonic has now taken its rightful
place as Hong Kong’s orchestra, there is an excellent and popular Chinese Orchestra, dance
and ballet groups are of a high standard, and we are developing a fine Youth Orchestra.
48 We have each year an International Hong Kong Arts Festival, a Festival of Asian Arts,
and usually a Film Festival. A week seldom passes without an opportunity to see or hear
something of high artistic merit.
49 The Arts Centre has proved an immediate success. Indeed all available auditoria are so
heavily booked, that it is just as well that before the mid-eighties the new cultural complex
at Tsim Sha Tsui will be completed and three new large City Halls and two small ones will
be completed in the New Territories.
50 In a different and more muscular field a wide variety of sports are supported through
the Council for Recreation and Sport: the Government has gone into partnership with the
Royal Hong Kong Jockey Club over establishing a very large Jubilee Sports Centre; a
Recreation and Sports Service has been formed which organises diverse forms of recreation
for at least 30,000 people of all ages a month and supplements and assists the work of
voluntary agencies and local groups in catering for much larger numbers. These are a large
number of recreational facilities under construction and in this the Urban Council is doing
particularly good work, but just to take one example there are now eleven swimming pool
complexes in use, a further two under construction, and 20 more are planned for completion
before 1984/85 of which half will be in the New Territories.
51 Then there is the new Country Parks Authority with responsibility for the care and
development for recreation of about 200 square miles of mountain, valley and beach, which
it is expected will be visited by anything up to 100,000 people on any weekend of good
weather.
52 Some of these diverse activities supported by public funds have existed for some time,
but most have not and in any case the scale of activity is out of all recognition. A high
standard of living, rest days and paid holidays have totally changed the situation, but I think
also that there was a vacuum in the life of Hong Kong for all age groups, a recreational and
cultural vacuum which might even have carried with it some danger, and one which the
people of Hong Kong were only too glad to fill given a lead and some encouragement and
some money.
53 To my mind this change in the leisure interests of Hong Kong symbolises just as
dramatically as the changed silhouettes of the skyscrapers, the strides that are being taken
in social and economic life of this community.
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC
54 Turning now to a series of financial and economic items. We all attach great
importance to the work of the Advisory Committee on Diversification
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―11 October 1978 17
chaired by the Financial Secretary. Hong Kong has grown and prospered in a constantly
changing world and has repeatedly proved its ability to adapt to changing circumstances.
Indeed it is adapting and changing all the time, both within traditional industries and into
new ones. So there is nothing new about the concept or practice of diversification in Hong
Kong. Nor does the study imply any lack of confidence about the survival of our traditional
industries. These have so often shown their capacity to maintain their markets by
diversification of their products or industrial techniques. Nevertheless we must be sure that
change beneficial to the economy is not inadvertently impeded by acts of commission or
omission by the Government or for that matter by the business community. This involves
study in great depth and detail.
55 The Committee has completed a study of the growth and development of Hong Kong’s
economy over the past 15 years, and has tentatively identified the likely future determinants
of growth of the various industries that make up our economy, including socio-political and
geo-political factors and the restrictive impact of the new generation of textile restraint
agreements. It has also arrived at certain forecasts of the likely growth of exports of both
goods and services over the five years to 1982.
56 Six Sub-Committees are studying the factors which have attracted or deterred the
establishment of new activities in the manufacturing and other sectors of the economy here,
and the measures taken in competitor countries and their comparative success.
57 These Sub-Committees will report before the end of the year, and on the basis of all
the material by then assembled, the Committee will move on to the final stage of
considering whether there is a case for modifying existing Government policies and/or
extending them to facilitate diversification of our economy.
58 This stage is planned to commence after the preparation of the Budget and will lead on
to the compilation of the Advisory Committee’s inevitably lengthy report but I hope that
the Advisory Committee will have accomplished its task by the middle of next year.
Public Accounts Committee
59 I now turn to a few items in the financial sector. Standing Orders of this Council were
amended on 10 June to provide for the establishment of a Public Accounts Committee. The
Committee will have its first meeting in a few weeks’ time to consider the Director of
Audit’s report on the accounts for 1977-78 and this is a welcome constitutional
development.
Financial Legislation
60 In his speech concluding the debate on the Budget, the Financial Secretary said that he
had set up a small working party to consider a method
18 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―11 October 1978
of statutory backing for our system of financial control. A Public Finance Bill will be
introduced this session.
61 Last year I mentioned proposals to extend to registered deposit-taking companies some
of the obligations at present imposed only on banks. A Bill will be introduced into this
Council very shortly to amend the Deposit- Taking Companies Ordinance. It will provide
for a system of prudential supervision of such companies, of which there are 234 in Hong
Kong, on somewhat similar lines to that presently exercised by the Commissioner of
Banking in respect of licensed banks.
The Public Finances
62 This brings me to the present state of our public finances, which I will deal with very
briefly. This year’s total revenue is now expected to exceed the original estimate by a quite
considerable amount, perhaps by as much as $1 billion. Largely due to buoyant land sales.
A large part of the increased revenue is being absorbed in increased expenditure on both
recurrent and capital accounts. We have, for example, incurred additional expenditure, not
provided for in the Estimates, as a result of the 1978 Civil Service salary awards, and of the
decision to reduce the qualifying age for the Old Age Allowance Scheme, from 75 to 70, in
one step rather than two as originally planned. It is, however, on the capital account that we
expect a substantially higher level of expenditure than provided for in the approved
Estimates. This is largely accounted for by the Public Works Programme as such, and
Housing. Higher prices account for a part of this increase, but we have also made good
progress on existing contracts and earlier starts on new projects. It is too early to indicate
with any precision the likely budget outturn, but there can be little doubt that there will
again be a surplus this year.
The Economy
63 The economy did better in 1977 than I had expected this time last year. The gross
domestic product in 1977 is now estimated to have grown by about 11% in real terms which
is significantly above the average so far in the seventies. The real earnings of the labour
force increased substantially and workers shared well in the benefits of economic growth.
64 But this undoubted progress was achieved against a less healthy background whose
main characteristic was a more rapid growth in domestic demand than in exports―a
situation not sustainable indefinitely in Hong Kong’s circumstances. In 1977 we also faced
a threat, on the international front, of a progressive slide into protectionism.
65 These were our two main concerns as the economy entered 1978, and they remain
today.
66 It is true that the Government’s large fiscal surplus in the financial year 1977-1978 and
the likelihood of a surplus this year, and higher interest rates, have had some restraining
effect on domestic consumption. But there are as
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―11 October 1978 19
yet few indications that the growth of expenditure either on private consumption or on
building and construction has begun to slow down, though it is expected to do so later in the
financial year. There are signs of some localized overheating, for example in the property
market.
67 On the other hand, there are hopeful signs that, despite the demands on resources being
made by consumption, the growth of domestically-produced exports will be higher in 1978
than it was in 1977. Several factors are contributing. First, a larger workforce has been
deployed than we thought possible. Second, the depreciation of the Hong Kong dollar, at
the time when world prices of raw materials are falling, has meant that our exports are
gradually proving more competitive. Third, there has been some improvement in demand in
our major markets, though our exports of textiles and clothing are beginning to run up
against the new and harsher quota limits we were forced to accept last year.
68 The other components of exports, re-exports, look as if it will achieve an increase of
about 25% in real terms for the year, though its contribution to our net foreign exchange
earnings will be comparatively small. It is too early to say whether this heralds a resurgence
of Hong Kong’s role as a regional entrepot, but meantime it is most welcome. Thus,
although exports as a whole will probably grow at a higher rate in 1978 than will the gross
domestic product, we expect our net foreign exchange earnings to continue to grow rather
more slowly.
69 To sum up for 1978, allowing for some slowing down in the growth of domestic
demand and an increase in the growth of exports, we expect the gross domestic product to
grow by about 10% in real terms―a very satisfactory performance by any standards.
Competing demands from the sectors catering for domestic activity and for exports have
resulted in further rapid growth in real wages and earnings and virtually nil unemployment.
70 Turning now to the outlook for 1979, views on demand in our major export markets
are limited. In the United States the emphasis appears to be on countering inflation, rather
than further reducing unemployment, and more cautious policies are likely to result. Recent
forecasts predict that the gross domestic product in the United States in 1979 will grow at
about 3½% in real terms, rather more slowly than the 4% expected this year. Conditions in
the Federal Republic of Germany are quite different. With a tendency towards growing
unemployment, low inflation rate and a large trade surplus, pressures there are mounting for
the economy to be reflated. Even so, present forecasts predict a growth of only about 2% to
3% in real terms for 1979, much the same as the outcome for this year. As in the United
Kingdom, the recovery which started in 1978 should continue in 1979.
71 But the prospects for our exports in 1979 will inevitably be influenced by the
restrictions on textiles and clothing. Of course, possibilities for trading up and for
diversification into other industries remain; and I feel sure
20 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―11 October 1978
that our entrepreneurs and our labour will exercise their traditional ingenuity to make the
best of the situation. But the low rates of growth included in our latest textiles agreements
and the greatly reduced provision for flexibility limit the extent to which our exporters can
adjust, to changing demand in our markets. The export sector is now reasonably
competitive and well poised for more rapid growth. It is to be hoped that this will be
facilitated by a further slowdown in domestic demand in 1979 thereby releasing the
necessary resources. Re-exports are traditionally hard to predict but it would be prudent to
assume that growth will be slower next year than this.
72 Taking all these factors together, it looks as if our foreign exchange earnings generated
by exports will continue to grow in 1979 at about the same rate as this year. Provided
economic growth, even at its comparatively low present rate, continues in our major
markets―and generally speaking this is what we expect―it should generate substantial
further growth in Hong Kong.
73 However there is the problem of the present imbalance between the growth rates of
domestic demand and of imports on the one hand and of exports on the other. The natural
effect of this situation on our exchange rate should discourage imports and encourage
exports. If, as we expect, there is a budgetary surplus again this year, this too should help to
restrain demand. While these problems are real enough and we must watch them, they are
not large in comparison to those facing most other countries.
74 I hope the forces I have referred to will achieve, gently, the necessary adjustment.
However if this natural process were to be delayed or distorted by other factors such as, for
instance, over-optimism in the real estate market, the adjustment could be deferred until it
would inevitably be sharper and more painful, but come it must.
GOVERNMENT PLANS FOR EXPANSION 1978―MID 80s
75 It is against this background of continuing economic growth that I will now describe
your Government’s plans for Hong Kong as it moves out of the 70s and into the 80s.
Public Works and Transport
76 I will begin with the Public Works programme partly because it is far too likely to get
left out of speeches like this, but also because nothing is so illustrative of the scale of
activity necessary to provide for the growth of the economic and social life of Hong Kong
in the next five or six years. This year the programme will exceed $3,000 million, and may
very well rise next year. This activity of construction when coupled with that of the private
sector, is now so intense that Hong Kong gives the impression of being one great
construction site. I deeply sympathise with those who live and work closest to the dust and
noise and the traffic congestion. But out of this inconvenient activity will emerge, and
emerge very soon, a Hong Kong that
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―11 October 1978 21
is largely transformed from the city we have known. So it is worth reminding ourselves
what some of the major projects are:―
(i) By 1981 Aberdeen will be linked with the Lion Rock Tunnel by means of the
Aberdeen Tunnel and a series of elevated highways and flyovers. By 1985 the
new motorway will be built along the north coast of the Island linking Victoria
with Shau Kei Wan. In Kowloon by 1980 the airport tunnel link with Kwun Tong
will be completed, and the corridor up the western side of the peninsula from
Gascoigne Road to Lai Chi Kok, already under construction, will be completed by
1984.
(ii) By 1981 the Kowloon-Canton Railway should be double-tracked and electrified
to the frontier, and linked to the Mass Transit Railway through the Kowloon Tong
interchange.
(iii) By 1980 the second half of the six-lane Tsuen Wan/Tuen Mun highway will be
open, and the Tsuen Wan by-pass by mid 1983.
(iv) By the end of 1981 the new coastal motorway from Sha Tin to Tai Po will be
complete.
(v) The Mass Transit Railway itself will be in full operation in the urban area by
April 1980 and to Tsuen Wan by 1982. Speaking now so near to the dust and
noise of its construction it is hard to realise how much this massive project will
improve transport for a large proportion of the population.
77 So by 1983 the driving time say Ap Lei Chau to Tuen Mun could be about 45 minutes,
give or take, a minute or two, a journey by underground from Central to Tsuen Wan should
take about 28 minutes, or from Hung Hom to Tai Po and Sheung Shui by train about 28 and
36 minutes. You will note that all these destinations will by 1984 be complete or virtually
complete towns of great or medium size. This will be a far cry from the Hong Kong
hemmed in by the mountains round the harbour of 10 or 15 years ago.
78 I have started with these communications projects because they are basic to Hong
Kong’s development. The spreading out of the City and its population into new areas with
access to new land is essential if it is to achieve not only better living standards but new
investment, new industries and new economic flexibility. But of course the roads, the
railways and the tunnels are only the start; one must add to them everything from drains to
swimming complexes, water supply and sewage plants to cultural centres, offices, fire
stations and police stations, which form part of Government programmes in the urban areas,
the three major towns and three smaller ones in the New Territories. And then there are the
hospitals, the clinics, the schools and so on. It must be the largest programme undertaken
by any City Public Works Department in the world.
Housing
79 Then next there is housing. We must ensure that there is self-contained housing in a
reasonable environment for all. The current programme was started between five and six
years ago. All the laborious work of site acquisition,
22 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―11 October 1978
preparation, design and construction, is at last reaching fruition, and completions will rise
from 18,000 flats this year to 45,000 next year and will be maintained between the 40,000
and 45,000 levels until 1985. That is to say housing each year for about a quarter of a
million people. Construction is now proceeding on no less than 57 projects with a contract
value of over $2,200 million. These figures include the flats for purchase under the Home
Ownership Scheme at present planned to average about 6,000 a year as from next year
when 8,500 will be completed. In view of the popularity of the scheme, we must be alive to
the possibility of varying the balance between the programmes for renting and sale in the
light of public demand, and the design of new estates provides for this degree of flexibility.
80 Our approach to the level of public housing production towards which we have been
working for so long, has coincided with a spurt in the construction of flats by private
developers, many for the middle and lowermiddle income groups. Thirty thousand will be
completed this year and probably as many next and this is a most welcome contribution.
But Honourable Members should be under no illusion about the size of the problem we face.
This year we reckon that the short-fall in self-contained living accommodation will be over
200,000 units. Allowing for about 300,000 more households by 1985, and assuming that the
public housing programme is maintained at the level I have indicated, and that the private
sector continues to make a substantial contribution, the short-fall should have been
eliminated by 1985 and well before that the problem as we have known it will have been
vastly reduced. However these figures make the traditional assumption that 60% of all oneperson and two-person households will share accommodation with others. In view of the
trend towards smaller households and the rising aspirations of our evolving society I doubt
if that assumption will continue to hold true much longer. There is, therefore a case for
rolling forward the Housing Porgramme after 1985, albeit at a less dramatic level, and
therefore for at least earmarking soon, sites for such a programme.
Education
81 The next major field is education. The great efforts made over the last decade and a
half have enabled us to reach a point at which we can plan and define a full provision for
education. We must do this because there is nothing―after security subsistence and
probably housing―that the population wants so much for itself and its children, and
because without it Hong Kong could not grow as a successful centre of industry, commerce
and finance.
82 To recapitualate: we achieved universal free and compulsory primary education in
1971.
83 All pupils completing primary school last summer are now being provided with free
Secondary Education places to Form III. By next September we shall be making education
compulsory to 14 and by September 1980
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―11 October 1978 23
we will achieve our goal of universal free and compulsory education to 15 or Form III.
84 With the prospect of virtually all the relevant age group leaving Form III after nine
years of education in 1981, we drew up plans to expand and refashion senior secondary and
tertiary education. These plans were published as a Green Paper last year and provoked
lively debate both inside and outside this Council. Your Government duly chastened will
shortly publish revised plans as a White Paper.
85 As well as providing for a great expansion of places, the White Paper will reflect the
importance the Government attaches to improving the quality of secondary education. The
most important relevant step will be a phased elevation of ‘per caput’ schools to fully-aided
status to ensure proper facilities and more uniform standards in all schools in the public
sector.
86 Quality will also be improved by broadening the curriculum to give more weight to
practical and technical subjects, by improving, and where applicable, lengthening, teacher
training programmes, and by strengthening schools support services.
87 In tertiary and higher education we propose that the Polytechnic should raise the level
of some of its work, and that, in compensation, more ordinary technical programmes should
be provided in the Technical Institutes which should be expanded accordingly.
88 Discussions have taken place with the colleges recognized under the Post-Secondary
Colleges Ordinance about ways in which they might contribute to achieving the
Government’s targets for Sixth Form and tertiary education, and the fruits of these
discussions will be presented in the White Paper.
89 I like to give an indication of the scale of expansion in higher education which your
Government now envisages and which we hope to achieve by about 1986:―
(a) The number of subsidised places in secondary Forms IV and V, or in post-Form III
courses in Technical Institutes, is now 25.7% of the relevant age group. We propose
that this should rise to about 83%. These increases, coupled with an expansion of
Adult Education Centres, should be able to meet most of the demand expected in the
‘80s from students leaving Form III.
(b) The similar figure for Form VI now is 5.5%. We suggest it should be increased to
about 20%.
(c) The present figure for tertiary education is 17.9% of the age group, and in tertiary
education I include, in addition to the universities and polytechnic, the schools of
nursing and education, and post-Form V courses in Technical Institutes. We think this
percentage of 17.9 should be raised to about 33% by 1986.
24 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―11 October 1978
(d) If these proposals are approved, and added to plans for expansion in junior secondary
education and for primary education already approved, recurrent expenditure on
education at 1978 prices may be expected to rise from about $1,700 million in 1978-79
to more than $2,900 million in 1986/87 and total capital expenditure over the same
period will be about $2,100 million.
90 Education after Form III will be heavily subsidised but not free. Fee remission and
student loan schemes should be expanded to ensure that no student judged suitable for the
wide variety of courses offered should be denied them through lack of means.
91 I mentioned last year that two working parties had been appointed to consider the
quality of primary education and its future development, and the services below primary
age and at kindergarten centres. These working parties are expected to report shortly, and
the resulting proposals will be published in a Green Paper.
92 Plans are thus well under way to prepare development programmes for all stages of
education from kindergartens to the tertiary level. While these programmes will lay down
the main lines of advance, there should be scope for re-examination in a wider context.
Accordingly, on the advice of the Board of Education, I propose to initiate a wide-ranging
review that would cover the whole of the educational system, its methods and its objectives.
It is proposed this should be conducted primarily by persons from abroad with great
expertise in education, though certainly with local participation. I see this review as a
longer term development to check the plans we have already made before they become too
deeply entrenched.
Social Security and Welfare
93 Last year we undertook a thorough and wide-ranging review of what social welfare
assistance should be for those sections of the community least able to help itself, whether
by means of cash grants or services. Following the publication of Green Papers and debates
on them in the last session, a comprehensive White Paper will be published shortly. Its
conclusions broadly are:―
(a) that our cost-of-living-based system of public assistance (or supplementary benefits as
it would be called elsewhere) is well understood and accepted as the basis for cash
payments to relieve proved―that is to say means-tested―need, but that additional
payments were required for those dependent upon public assistance for long periods,
and this has been done.
(b) that more should be done for the aged and particularly to make it easier for them to
continue life within their family or community in dignity. The qualifying age for Old
Age Allowance has been dropped from 75 to 70; and a supplement for those over 60
receiving public assistance has been introduced. In addition to these payments, a range
of services
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―11 October 1978 25
should be established over the next ten years including: the provision of special places
in public housing, expansion of community nursing services, day hospitals and more
geriatric beds. For those not in need of medical care but who are unable to look after
themselves or to be cared for by their families, we envisage provision of about 1,700
additional care and attention places and 2,800 additional places in homes for the aged.
These facilities will serve only a very small proportion of a total population of 400,000
aged 60 and over. The bulk of our old people will remain with their families, where
they prefer to be, but there will be a range of supporting services to help them to do so.
The focal point of such services will be 17 district multi-purpose centres and a network
of social centres which will provide a basis for organising home help, laundry services,
counselling and social and recreational activities.
(c) that more should be done for the rehabilitation or support of those mentally or
physically handicapped, and a ten-year programme of phased development of centres
and services has been drawn up and their details already published in a White Paper.
These services can be supplemented with both disability allowances and public
assistance where applicable.
(d) that more should be done for certain categories of young people requiring special
attention beyond the already wide range of normal provision. The main thrust will be
by means of school social work and family life education.
94 These programmes are technical in content and can only be supported by a steady flow
of social or para-medical workers trained in a wide variety of disciplines. Provision for the
necessary courses has been made and many are already in operation.
95 The details of all these programmes either have been or very shortly will be published
in White Papers. At 1978 prices, over the next 5 years this will involve $223 million in
capital expenditure, and an increase of $513 million in the level of recurrent expenditure.
96 The Green Paper also recommended a voluntary contributory scheme of insurance
against the risks of extended sickness, death and retirement. This proposal has been the
subject of wide debate and also of tests of public opinion, and the Public Actuary’s Office
in United Kingdom has been consulted. A group of employers has also put forward a
counter-scheme to cover the same risks. While your Government accepts the need for the
coverage it has not yet reached a conclusion on what the best method of proceeding would
be―given the wide measure of cover for the lower income groups already provided by
Public Assistance and Disability and Old Age Allowances, and by statutory benefits under
labour legislation and a significant figure already covered by the terms of their employment.
It is hoped that proposals may be put to you during this session.
26 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―11 October 1978
Medical and Health Services
97 Our Medical and Health Services are good, and the drop in the levels of communicable
disease and infant mortality, and the rise in expectation of life has been extraordinary.
Nevertheless the services are not perfect, and the population is not only growing, but also
moving into new areas not covered by existing services. We therefore have a ten-year
expansion plan. That in the 1974 White Paper has been reviewed and rolled forward each
year, but not republished. After the current year’s review by the Medical Development
Advisory Committee up-dated plans will be made public in the same way as the Annual
Review of our Social Welfare programme is published. But as an indication of where we
have got to, the main objectives for 1986-87 recommended by the Medical Development
Advisory Committee are:―
(a) The number of general and specialised hospital beds to increase from 20,000 or 4.4 per
thousand population now to approximately 31,800 or 6.1 per thousand.
(b) The number of out-patient clinics to increase from 52 with 250 consulting rooms now,
to 66 with 407 consulting rooms, an increase of from 5.4 consulting rooms per 100,000
population to 7.8.
(c) An expansion of maternity and child health, family planning, immunisation and health
education programmes.
(d) The number of psychiatric beds to increase from 2,400 to 5,000, psychiatric day beds
from 180 to 450, and mentally retarded beds from 260 to 700.
(e) A new dental school to open in 1980 and a second medical school in 1981.
(f) A new dental therapist training school is being opened this month, and two new nurses
training schools are to be available by 1982.
(g) Extensive new courses for the training of para-medical personnel have already
commenced at the Polytechnic this September.
(h) A school dental care service to be introduced in 1980.
(i) If implemented these proposals will raise recurrent expenditure on medical and health
services, at 1978 prices, from $825 million in 1978-79 to $1,600 million in 1986-87,
and involve capital expenditure of more than $2,200 million over the same period,
including the cost of medical and para-medical teaching facilities at the two
universities and the Polytechnic.
98 Your Government hopes that the proportionate increases in facilities in hospitals and
clinics will relieve pressure on beds and buildings, improve the convenience and speed of
medical services to the public, and facilities their administration.
Police
99 The Royal Hong Kong Police Force has increased by 48% since 1973 to 21,000 men
and women including civilians, and it will increase by a further
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―11 October 1978 27
1,000 this year, and is planning on a further increase of strength of 1,300 next year. These
increases are large, but Police commitments are growing with the construction of new
estates and new towns, and with the growth in population. It is clearly of the greatest
importance that from the outset these new communities should have the police coverage
that they all want. As an indication of the efforts the Force is making to use its new strength
to increase its coverage, 97 neighbourhood police units and police reporting centres in
housing estates and other areas are already in operation, 32 more are planned for
completion during this financial year, and 23 next. Five new police stations are being
opened this year. Next year 2 more will be completed and work will start on 4 more. In all,
21 new stations are planned for completion by 1985-86. What increase in strength will be
necessary over this period it is impossible to say with precision. The high level of
recruitment in recent years has been a great achievement, but the Force is now
exceptionally young. This represents an opportunity and a challenge, and the quality of the
new entry is high, the responsibility falling on supervising officers has been extremely
heavy, and other things being equal I am sure that the need now is for a period of
consolidation, and less frenetic expansion. At the moment the recurrent cost of the Force is
estimated, at 1978 prices, to rise from $600 million in 1978-79 to about $785 million in
1983-84.
Prisons
100 Conditions in prisons have improved dramatically from the serious over-crowding of a
few years ago. The numbers of prisoners have dropped, and accommodation has improved
as a result of substantial new construction during the last four or five years. Nevertheless
the number of long-term prisoners requiring high security is increasing. A further high
security prison is therefore being built at Shek Pik, for completion in early 1981, and a
further medium security prison to replace Victoria Prison is planned for completion by
about 1984 on Hei Ling Chau. It will then, at last, be possible to demolish the old Victoria
Prison. The Drug Addiction Centre on Hei Ling Chau is achieving excellent results in the
cure of certain types of addicts, and, will accommodate 1,170 inmates. This is expected to
rise to 1,440 by 1980-81 when total treatment accommodation will reach 2,250 places with
an annual throughput of nearly 7,000. And so finally I come to the scarcest resource of all
in Hong Kong land.
Land Production
101 It is apparent that shortage of land, and particularly shortage of land for industry and to
some extent for private development could deter investment and stifle economic growth.
Consequently production of land is one of the Government’s highest priorities, and many of
the communications projects I have described are to provide access to it.
102 Between 1978-79 and 83-84 we expect to produce an average of about 80 hectares a
year for industrial use, 64 for private non-industrial use and
28 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―11 October 1978
85 for public housing use. These figures are revised from those I gave last year and unlike
them are of the land actually available for building, that is to say, net of roads, services,
GIC etc.
103 These figures, which include the two industrial estates, represent a much higher flow
of land onto the market than has ever been achieved before. Nevertheless it is questionable
whether it will be enough and in any case there is the period after 1983-84 which must be
planned for now.
104 It is becoming clear that the main additional sources of new land are likely to be the
north coast of Lantau and Junk Bay. By early next year the Government’s consultants on a
fixed crossing to Lantau will be reporting on the best route and method and the probable
costs of linking the island with the mainland, and the Government’s own engineering
investigations will have reached a stage at which the development potential of the island
and the land production costs can be sufficiently and accurately assessed for decision to be
made as to when and how development could start. The earliest time when a bridge could
be completed is mid-1984, although substantial areas of land would probably be formed for
use by the time the bridge was opened. But it would also be necessary to start land
production projects in other areas to bridge the shortfalls of the early eighties. Of these the
most important is Junk Bay. This area would provide for a new satellite town of some
200,000 people with about 72 net hectares of new industrial land and the provision of
proper access and water supplies would also allow about 35 hectares of existing industrial
land to be better utilised. It is proposed to seek the approval of the Public Works SubCommittee to start work on the infrastructure in the coming year. At the same time approval
will be sought to start development of an extension to Sha Tin New Town along the eastern
side of the cove to Wu Kwai Sha which should provide land for about 22 and 47 net
hectares of land for industry and private housing respectively in addition to public use. The
release of the Communications Station of Little Sai Wan will make available about 30
hectares of additional industrial recreational and institutional land, and the Government is
aiming to have this area formed and available as soon as possible after its release at the end
of 1982.
105 These figures of land production may seem small, but in our geographical
circumstances they are very large and represent a very major engineering commitment, and
will require careful phasing for financial and practical reasons.
CONCLUSION
106 Honourable Members, I have sketched these plans in broad terms and Secretaries or
Heads of Departments later in the debate will be elaborating on them, paying particular
attention to plans to be finalised this year. My object has been indicative.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―11 October 1978 29
107 During the 70s, which are now drawing to a close, an immense amount has been
achieved; whether in economic, financial, social or cultural terms, the progress is there for
all to see. It is progress in which all of the people of Hong Kong as well as the public
services have played a part; from those in positions of political power, to workers in
factories and on construction sites; from Executive and Legislative Councils to Kaifongs
and Mutual Aid Committees. Newspapers, television and radio have all made their
contribution. Progress of this speed and width of front is only possible if a community is
acting in broad agreement about what is needed and where it wants to go.
108 The plans I have described, together with the many other Government programmes
already in train, involve an average increase in expenditure over the next six years similar
to that over the last. They assume therefore an average growth rate of the economy similar
to that of the last six years, that is to say, about 9% per annum in real terms. On this basis
these plans should be achievable at constant tax rates. I would add that the need for
flexibility and adaptability in the design and implementation of our programmes in
changing circumstances is of course well understood.
109 Our plans are designed to continue the progress of the 70s and, by the mid-80s, to have
lifted the life of Hong Kong on to a plateau on which the same sort of massive effort of
change will no longer be necessary, although naturally human aspiration has no limit. With
new towns and new land in which to develop, with the crowded insanitary and insecure
conditions of the past behind us, the universal opportunities for education to sustain our
ability to grasp what the future offers, and with facilities for a cultural and recreational life
unknown ten years ago Hong Kong will be able to take its rightful place in the region with
its head held high.
110 China is poised for a period of rapid modernisation; the Western Pacific Basin and
South-East Asia is one of the fastest growth areas in the world. In the middle of this
ferment of activity is Hong Kong with its magnificent communications, all the modern
facilities required by international commerce and finance, dynamic and evolving industries,
a large market in its own right, and a convenient platform from which other markets can be
worked, a stable Government, and it is, and will be even more so in six years’ time, a Hong
Kong which has been re-built, re-located and re-generated. With the goodwill of China and
support of the United Kingdom, surely its prospects are bright.