HIS EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR:―
INTRODUCTION
Welcome to new Members
1. I should like to start with a special word of welcome to our two new Members. Their
appointment involves membership of two interlocking bodies―this Council and the
organization known as Unofficial Members of Executive and Legislative Councils―
UMELCO.
The Legislative Council and UMELCO
2. The Legislative Council itself has the final word on legislation and expenditure
proposed by the Government: all Unofficial Members are members of Finance Committee
which has sub-committees dealing with public works and establishment.
3. UMELCO is a body unique to Hong Kong. Working groups of members study all
aspects of Government business, and receive and consider representations by the public
about legislation or other action proposed or taken by the Government. This is vital and
time-consuming work. UMELCO is supported by its own secretariat, and its members
perform a key role in receiving, and acting on, complaints and enquiries from the public. In
a more formal way, they do the same thing through membership of the UMELCO Police
Group and the UMELCO Committee on Complaints against the ICAC; and in these, they
monitor and keep a particularly close check on how the public’s complaints in these two
fields are handled.
4. There are many channels for complaints by the public, including, of course, complaints
officers in most departments, and these are essential parts of the whole system of
communications between governed and government in the particular circumstances of
Hong Kong, and I will return to this theme later on in my speech, but the importance of the
means of redress available in UMELCO cannot be emphasized enough. I am glad to say
that they are well used.
5. There may have been far-off time when Hong Kong was a comparatively small and
uncomplicated place, and membership of this Council made smaller demands on the time
and energy of members. But now it involves a task which is as arduous as it is important. It
calls for a commitment to the community which can be sustained only by people who are
both highly motivated, and who can contribute, from amongst their membership, a very
wide spread of personal experience and professional expertise. At the opening of this
session I would like to thank all Members for the dedication with which they approach their
task, and the immense contribution they make to the good government of Hong Kong.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979 7
Theme of the Speech
6. The year I now review has been an unusual and in some ways rather an exciting one.
Because of improved Sino-British relations over Hong Kong, but also because of the influx
of refugees from Vietnam, Hong Kong has attracted considerable international interest, and
been obliged to play a part in international affairs―albeit a very small part, and under the
aegis of the United Kingdom Government. We are used to this in the commercial field, but
in the political field it has been a new experience. We have had a massive inflow of
permanent immigrants from Guangdong and other provinces. We have reinforced the
garrison. In addition we have had the Vietnamese refugees who are transients, but whose
administration has been a heavy additional burden. These alarms and excursions have been
executed against an economic background which has been a constant source of both anxiety
and relief. As so often in Hong Kong some hopes have been dupes and some fears have
proved liars. The situation was very well described by the Financial Secretary in his midyear review. In spite of the buoyancy of exports, on which in the final analysis we depend,
there are elements of disequilibrium in the economy which are dangerous and which your
Government is trying to correct but so far without complete success. I would put it like this:
we have a new problem―learning how to live with prosperity without the erosion of social
priorities on the one hand or economic prudence on the other.
7. With all this in the headlines one might be excused for an impression that in all other
fields your Government had been marking time. But in fact the bulk of our programmes of
social advance are on target and broadly speaking only when capital works have been
involved has some rephasing been necessary, although even in this field it looks as if there
will be an increase of 7% in real terms over last year. Although this 7% must be seen in the
context of a 25% increase in real terms in 1978 and 42% in 1977, it is symptomatic of the
urgency of need for such works that even this substantial increase has been cause of
considerable frustration and disappointment.
8. The order of my speech will be to deal with various items of special interest, then
review our economic and financial situation, and against this background indicate what it
has been possible to do this year and what we hope to do next.
SINO/BRITISH RELATIONS
9. Sino/British relations still further improved during the year, including relations over
Hong Kong. Chairman Hua Guofeng will visit the United Kingdom later this month―the
first visit of this sort by such a senior Chinese leader. Locally, there are many examples of
the excellent state of our relations. During the past year communications between Hong
Kong and Guangzhou by rail, air and sea, have all greatly improved. We hope that air links
with other cities will also improve during the year ahead. Water supplies have been usefully
and significantly increased. A new agreement
8 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979
on water supplies was signed last November, and we look forward to further talks with the
water authorities in Guangdong on how to meet increased demand in the longer term. I
myself and Sir Yuet-keung KAN were invited to meet leaders in Beijing and Guangzhou and
had talks with them. These, like subsequent remarks by Chinese leaders, reflected a positive
view of Hong Kong’s role in China’s modernization programme which was both
constructive and encouraging.
10. All this has to be seen against the background of the evolution and consolidation of the
Chinese Government’s new policies emphasizing modernization and economic
development and providing for overseas investment. It is clear that the Chinese
Government sees Hong Kong as playing a part in these programmes. Certainly Hong Kong
is able to do so, and people in Hong Kong are willing to do so, and the process has started.
Obviously there is a very special opportunity and need for investment in Guangdong. It is
important that both as a Government and as a business community we constantly bear these
new possibilities in mind and study ways of advancing the process―consistent of course
with what is commercially and in other ways acceptable.
IMMIGRATION
Vietnamese Boat Refugees
11. The question of Vietnamese boat refugees has aroused world-wide concern,
culminating with the conference held in Geneva at the request of Mrs. THATCHER. The
conference was a notable success but there is a danger that following it, international
interest will decline or focus on some other Indo-Chinese issue while here in Hong Kong
the problem remains very much with us, as the figures show. There are still 65,000
Vietnamese in Hong Kong awaiting overseas resettlement, more than the number of boat
refugees anywhere else in the region. Most of these arrived during the first six months of
this year. Since the Geneva Conference the rate of arrivals, here and elsewhere, has dropped
significantly though some have continued to arrive. Resettlement from Hong Kong has
been slow and only 12,900 have been resettled since the beginning of this year. However
the rate has improved considerably since the Geneva Conference and we are now hoping to
reach and maintain a monthly departure rate of at least 4,000. In the meantime, the UNHCR
has agreed to cover the care and maintenance costs of all Vietnamese refugees in Hong
Kong from 1 September. Up till this date the direct recurrent and capital costs incurred by
your Government amounted to $66½ million.
12. If there are no further large scale arrivals of refugees we can hope that the problem
will gradually diminish over the next year or so. This, of course, depends on the many
receiving countries continuing and increasing their efforts, and on Hong Kong getting its
fair share of resettlement places.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979 9
13. It also of course depends on the outward flow not restarting. If it does, it would only
be as the result of a deliberate and callous decision by the Vietnamese Government. Their
ability to control this movement was amply proved when they stopped it at the time of the
Geneva Conference.
14. I should like to record this Government’s thanks to the voluntary agencies and
individual people who have done so much to assist in the administration of these refugee
camps. Also I think we are all proud of the way that the many Government departments
involved reacted to this sudden challenge.
Chinese Immigration
15. The Vietnamese refugees have no claim on Hong Kong, for the most part do not want
to stay here, and are simply transients. As ill luck would have it their arrival coincided with
a surge of movement into Hong Kong from China. In the twelve months from 1 October
1978 to 30 September this year, about 83,000 have entered Hong Kong legally―almost all
of them nominally on visits―but only 3% have returned. The daily arrival rate reached a
peak of 310 for the month of December and is now averaging 170. It is disappointing that
this figure has not continued to drop as we hoped it would and as we were assured it would.
It compares with a more acceptable average of about 65 a day between 1975 and the end of
1977.
16. The number of illegal immigrants who have been arrested and returned to China so far
during the same period is about 60,000. The large number arrested reflects great credit on
the Security Forces, but in spite of all their efforts, the number of those who have
succeeded in entering and joining the Hong Kong population remains high. Probably from 1
October 1978 to 31 August this year it was about 96,000.
17. We have sought to solve these problems by consultation with the Chinese authorities
and also by reinforcing the garrison and strengthening our other anti-illegal immigration
measures. The Chinese authorities took highly effective action against illegal movement
into Hong Kong in June and July and the arrest rate dropped from a peak of 465 for the
month of May to 20 per day in July. However the improvement has slipped significantly
and arrest rates have climbed back to an average of 180 a day in September.
18. There are some in Hong Kong who insist that this level of legal and illegal movement
represents a deliberate policy of diluting living standards in Hong Kong and disposing of
under-employed population in Guangdong. I do not think so. I believe that the difficulties
of the Chinese authorities in restricting the flow are genuine. Nevertheless we cannot
disregard the effect of what is happening. Hong Kong is set on a course towards becoming
a high technology and relatively high wage economy, with industry steadily becoming more
sophisticated and therefore more capital intensive. I believe it is in the interest of
contributing to the modernization programme of the Chinese Government, as well as in the
material and social interest of the people
10 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979
of Hong Kong, that we should continue on this course, just as it is essential that our plans
for improvement in housing conditions, education and medical and other services should
succeed. To do so we must have a reasonable degree of population control. Since 1 January
1978 our gain by legal or illegal immigration from China has been of the order of 230,000,
nearly a quarter of a million and the new rash of squatter huts on the hillsides is there for all
to see. Whatever the reasons for the recent influx of new arrivals from China, a marked
reduction in both legal and illegal immigration is now essential.
Reinforcement of the Garrison
19. Reinforcement of the garrison is an unusual event in peaceful Hong Kong. It was
entirely due to anti-illegal immigrant operations. By the beginning of June all resident units
of the garrison were committed and at full stretch and the Royal Hong Kong Regiment and
Auxiliary Police were partially mobilized.
20. This situation was not sustainable, and in spite of their other commitments Her
Majesty Government agreed to provide reinforcements.
21. These started to arrive in Hong Kong from 24 June. The principal elements included
one U.K. battalion, two companies of Gurkhas from Brunei, helicopters, some naval craft,
and supporting staff.
22. In combination with the action taken by the Chinese authorities, reinforcement and the
excellent work done by both garrison and police, undoubtedly achieved their immediate
purpose of bringing about a swift reduction in the numbers of illegal immigrants which
started in late June.
23. We are determined to maintain our increased effort round our entire land and sea
perimeter, and we have recently brought out a military hovercraft and both large and small
fast patrol craft to augment the present strength. Moreover nine new large police launches
have been ordered and will be commissioned within the next year. There will also be such a
considerable increase in the number of Gurkha troops available to us by November that it
will make possible the withdrawal of the extra U.K. battalion. Immediate further
reinforcement will of course continue to be available at very short notice from Brunei if we
need them. But I personally believe that the key to this problem lies in Guangdong.
LAW AND ORDER
24. Now I should like to deal with a series of subjects under the heading of law and order.
Narcotics
25. The success of our campaign against drugs addiction continues. International cooperation, improved interdiction by both the Customs Service and the Royal Hong Kong
Police, voluntary and compulsory treatment of
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979 11
addicts, and public education, have all played their part. But this year failure of the poppy
crop in the Golden Triangle has also had a dramatic effect. The combination of all these
factors has increased the price of heroin in Hong Kong by 500%.
26. The various agencies co-ordinated by the Action Committee Against Narcotics are
attempting to seize this opportunity. Attendance at voluntary methadone clinics has
increased by 80% since January, and the figure of addicts in daily treatment, rehabilitation,
or after-care, has risen to 15,000. This is a good figure since we are satisfied that there are
now less than 50,000 addicts in Hong Kong.
27. These figures reflect something of a windfall. But there are indications also of steady
progress. The number of persons entering institutions of the Prisons Department found to
be addicted dropped from 5,400 in 1973 to 4,700 in 1976, and is likely to be about 2,000 by
the end of this year. Similarly the number of those under 21 treated in drug addition
treatment centres has dropped from 260 to 186 and to 65 this year. This is the trend for
which many have worked long and hard.
The Police, Reorganization and Consolidation
28. The strength of the Royal Hong Kong Police Force expanded by 48% between 1973
and 1978. During the past twelve months the expansion has been 5% and this reflects the
phase of consolidation and concentration on improvement of command and management,
recommended by the Home Office Inspector of Constabulary, Mr. James CRANE, in 1978.
29. When he returned in April this year he found much done and the Force in better shape,
with improved communications between the senior and junior ranks of the Force, and a
better management structure. But much yet remains to be done, particularly in the areas of
welfare and practical administration.
30. I am determined that as room can be found in the capital works programme the
conditions for both work and recreation of the police will be improved. Over the last 20
years they have regrettably declined in comparison to, say, the armed forces. Much can be
done to improve present conditions given time and a reasonable degree of priority.
31. However the issue of most concern to the police at present and to other disciplined
services, is pay. This is being looked at by the Standing Commission on Salaries and I
should hope to have its recommendations very soon.
32. The Force is an exceptionally young one, and the burden of supervision placed on
older and more experienced officers is proportionately great. There is no real way round
this problem except time. But to ease the burden training facilities, including in-service
continuation training, have been considerably extended.
12 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979
Crime
33. The level of violent crime rose rapidly in the late sixties and early seventies to a peak
at the end of 1973. At the beginning of 1974 robberies (a good indicator of the level of
violent crime) were being reported at the high rate of 40 a day; thereafter as the campaign
against violent crime gained momentum, the figure dropped steadily to a daily average in
1978 and earlier this year of only 16.
34. This was a notable success for the police and indeed for the community. However in
recent months there has been a sharp increase to about 30 a day. There is no doubt this is
related to the high price and shortage of drugs I have referred to already. The police have
reacted quickly and the increase appears to be held. The problem now is to force it back
again.
Public Co-operation
35. The increase in co-operation between public and police in general efforts against crime,
particularly through Fight Crime and Mutual Aid Committees, continues. Of the total
number of arrests of criminals in 1979 around 10% were effected by the public which is
surely an extraordinary figure. The fight against crime cannot be a matter for the police
alone. The Force can be relied on to take action whenever criminal activities are reported to
them but to be really successful they must have the support of the community and this they
increasingly have.
The ICAC
36. Since the ICAC was set up we have come a long way in the fight against corruption.
The greatest danger is complacency, and the Commissioner Against Corruption keeps
reminding me that we have a long way to go before we in Hong Kong have any right to be
complacent. There are no signs of a revival of the large corruption syndicates, but there is
plenty of evidence of corrupt individuals and groups operating within the public service, the
scheduled bodies and in private firms. Consequently widespread and intense investigations
continue to be conducted. These are greatly assisted by the number of individuals both from
the public and from within the public service prepared personally to report corruption to the
Commission. Though old attitudes die hard, the ICAC’s relationship with the police is
improving and closer operational liaison is being built up.
37. The essential now is to maintain and consolidate the progress being made. Once
corruption was on top of us―or nearly was; now with the help of the ICAC and many other
organizations we are on top of it. But it is still alive, still dangerous, and only constant
vigilance will wear down its ability to harm us. This you can rely on your Government to
do. It is not a fight in which we will ever tire.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979 13
Prisons Department
38. The influx of Vietnamese refugees and illegal immigrants from China pressed very
hard on the Prisons Department, which has been called on to provide accommodation at
short notice, and sometimes to the detriment of long cherished plans. Although for most
refugees alternative accommodation has now been provided, they still occupy Victoria, Chi
Ma Wan and Cape Collinson. And in addition 120 prison staff were seconded to help
administer other refugee camps, which they did with marked success.
39. The Department now has inmates in excess of 6,000 and this compares with about
6,600 in 1978 or 7,000 in 1974―in spite, I am glad to say, of an overall population increase
of 14% during this period.
40. But the increase in numbers of long term prisoners and high security prisoners is a
continuing problem and additional special accommodation is of increasingly high priority.
41. The programme to expand prison industries is proceeding satisfactorily now that most
of the key specialist staff have been appointed.
42. An amendment to the Criminal Procedure Ordinance will be introduced to provide for
compulsory supervision for young persons discharged from prison. This will be in addition
to existing aftercare schemes for former inmates of detention centres, training centres and
drug addiction treatment centres.
ADMINISTRATION
Urban Administration
43. I spoke earlier of the vital role played by members of UMELCO in their various
capacities, as a communications link between Government and governed. Urban
Councillors, in this sphere, of course play an important part too.
44. Your Government is very conscious of the need to be in day to day touch with public
opinion and to respond to constructive criticism in drawing up its policies and programmes.
A very great deal of thought and effort is put into seeking out and anticipating the views of
people outside the Government.
45. One method is our consultative system. This operates through committees on which
officials and unofficials sit together to confer on public affairs. It is well known, well tried,
of long standing, and at its best produces a very healthy interchange of ideas.
46. But over the last 10 years your Government has paid increasing attention to the views
of the man-in-the-street on public affairs generally and in particular towards policies and
programmes that are likely to have a disruptive effect on his daily life. The very urgency
with which we press
14 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979
forward our programmes imposes upon us an obligation to ensure that the impact of these
upon individual people is considered, and dealt with in a way that has broad public consent.
47. It was to meet this need for better communication with the general public that the
Government established the ten City District Offices on Hong Kong Island and in Kowloon
in 1968; this was an entirely new concept in urban administration. By setting up shop-front
offices, staffing them with easily approachable officials, the Government’s aim was to get a
better understanding of the ideas and aspirations of ordinary people, and offer them
practical advice and assistance in resolving their personal problems.
48. The scheme was popular with the public from the outset, and last year well over three
million people sought advice or help at the City District Offices. It was from these same
offices that the Area Committees and the Mutual Aid Committees were started. These have
played a most valuable role in involving the community in the fight against dirt and crime;
they have also notably assisted people in adjusting to life in high-rise housing estates, and
provide a large new cross-section of opinion easily accessible to District Officers.
49. The District Officers and their staff with their extensive contacts with people and
organizations at district level are in very close touch with community feeling and their
knowledge is used to ascertain public attitudes towards Government policies. It is now
standard practice within the Government that the anticipated community repercussions of
any major policy proposals are subject to an independent assessment by the Home Affairs
Department. And this work goes on quietly day in and day out throughout the year.
50. For its part the Information Services Department researches editorial opinion and
reports published in the news media to assist with the assessment of public opinion and
public reaction which the Government needs to guide its policies. But we must be
constantly looking for ways of improving our system of consulting the public and
constantly reassuring the public that its views are taken into account when policies are
formulated and actions decided upon.
51. It was also one of the objectives of the CDO Scheme to monitor the performance of
Government departments in the urban areas at the district level and to ensure that action
would not go by default as a result of unsatisfactory co-ordination. Unlike the New
Territories which had always been administered on a regional basis with the District
Officers acting as a focal point for planning and co-ordination, the urban areas of Hong
Kong and Kowloon had largely been served by departments that directed their field
operations from centrally located offices.
52. In spite of the good work that has been done since 1968 to achieve better co-ordination
of Government effort. I think the time has come to
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979 15
attempt a more unified approach by departments to their work in urban regions and a
clearer perception of what the local needs of a particular area are―whether this is a district,
or group of districts, or even part of a district.
53. Your Government therefore proposes, as a first step, to strengthen the City District
Office of Kwun Tong in much the same way as District Offices in new towns were
strengthened by the creation of Management Committees. As in the new towns the object
will be to ensure that the total Government effort in that area is better co-ordinated and
directed to the needs of those who live there, and secures quicker action in resolving local
problems. It will also be our aim to achieve, as in the new towns, involvement of a wide
cross-section of responsible leaders in the process of advising, warning and stimulating the
Government about administration in their own area. This will mean reviewing existing
consultative systems in the Kwun Tong District.
54. I wish to make it clear that this development is not intended to and will not be allowed
to encroach upon the work of existing statutory authorities working in the Kwun Tong
District, including of course the Urban Council. Its objectives will be simply to ensure
quicker regional co-ordination of Government programmes, works and administration, and
arrangements to consult Kwun Tong people about them.
55. If, as I hope, this scheme is successful we will extend it to other areas.
New Territories Administration
56. In the New Territories this local focus for administration and consultation is already
becoming well established. The Town Management Committees bring together all
departments concerned with the development and maintenance of a new town and so
achieve a local approach. This seems to me entirely right. Hong Kong now includes too
many towns and distinctive areas of too great a size and of too much individuality for local
needs and aspirations to be met from centralized departments without strong local
representation.
57. The District Advisory Boards have been providing the Management Committees with
a forum for local consultation since 1977. These Boards have established for themselves a
full and increasingly important role in local administration, and they are also bringing
together the traditional inhabitants of the New Territories and the large number of
newcomers. The Heung Yee Kuk has continued to make a valuable contribution in
representing the views of the New Territories people as a whole, and the participation of
Heung Yee Kuk members in the District Advisory Boards has strengthened their
usefulness.
58. New Management Committees have been set up in Sha Tau Kok, Lamma, Cheung
Chau so as to extend the concept of local co-ordination to other areas which I hope will
soon cover all the residential areas of any significance throughout the New Territories.
16 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979
59. In addition to the consideration of all major expenditure affecting their districts,
perhaps the most striking contribution of the District Advisory Boards has been the leading
role they have played in art, culture and recreation. With the funds available to them
supplemented by local contributions they have greatly encouraged local participation and
interest. The Tsuen Wan Arts Festival, the Tuen Mun Week and the Sai Kung Festival have
been the major programmes organized in this way among many hundreds of other events,
and these activities are helping to fill the recreational and cultural vacuum about which I
spoke at this time last year.
Legal Advice, Duty Lawyer, and Lay Assessors Schemes
60. I reported last year about some new developments in our legal system aimed at a better
understanding of the law and a better administration of justice. In a sense these parallel in
the legal field the efforts I have described in the administrative field to improve
understanding between government and governed.
61. The Free Legal Advice Scheme on civil matters started in November 1978 in the City
District Offices of Eastern and Mong Kok, administered by the Law Society and the Bar
Association and subvented by Government. The scheme has proved very popular. Up to the
end of August over 1,000 people have obtained advice and assistance in the two centres
which are served by 150 lawyers on a roster basis with assistance, enthusiastic assistance,
from law students from the University of Hong Kong. A third centre will soon be opened in
north-east Kowloon.
62. The Law Society and the Bar Association also administer the Duty Lawyer Scheme. It
started in January of this year initially in three Magistracies, one on the Island and two in
Kowloon. It is served by about 100 practising solicitors and barristers and has provided
assistance to some 2,850 persons during the first eight months. The scheme has quickly
established a reputation for fair and honest representation of defendants’ interests and very
few defendants have declined to use it. A review will be undertaken towards the end of this
year to see if expansion is required.
63. As regards lay assessors, about 200 persons from a variety of social backgrounds have
been appointed at the beginning of this year. Being bilingual and well-equipped with
knowledge of local custom and traditions and current community feelings, these assessors
have sat with expatriate magistrates hearing cases involving dangerous drugs, robbery and
burglary, theft, common assault and traffic offences. Many more are needed, and we will
continue to invite those willing and capable to come forward to join us in this very useful
venture.
64. I should like to congratulate members of the legal profession on the success of these
schemes and on giving so generously of their time. Taken in conjunction, and perhaps
expanded, these schemes should help to bridge
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979 17
the psychological gap that lies between much of the population and the procedures of
British Law.
The Public Service
65. I referred last year to the very great pressures on the public service as a result of the
rapid expansion of Government’s activities, and said that we intended to make a particular
effort to improve staff management. I believe we have made a good start.
66. The biggest single hindrance to better management was the lack of adequate
machinery for resolving the pay and structure problems of a service which, with 130,000
staff in 629 different grades in 48 separate departments, had by any standards become
extremely large and complex.
67. In considering how best to tackle these problems we were mindful of the fact that
arrangements which have worked well in other countries might not do so in Hong Kong.
We needed therefore to think in terms of a homegrown solution to home-grown problems.
The outcome was the setting up in January of the Standing Commission on Civil Service
Salaries and Conditions of Service. It represented a major institutional advance. It is a key
feature of the Commission that while neither staff side nor the management sits on it, both
have the right to be heard by it.
68. Thanks to the indefatigable leadership of Sir Y. K. KAN, and the able efforts of his
fellow Commissioners, the Commission’s first major report on Principles and Practices
Governing Civil Service Pay has already been received and accepted by the Government. It
is now certain that the Commission will have completed its second major report on civil
service pay by the end of this month, that is within the first nine months of its life and this
is a remarkable achievement by all concerned.
69. The setting up of the Standing Commission has stimulated staff consultation, and there
is now a much more satisfactory dialogue between staff and management than a year ago. It
is important that we go on improving consultative arrangements, and I am glad that the
Standing Commission expects to study this in depth and report next year.
70. On staff management generally there has been a great deal of heart-searching at all
levels in the public service. Much remains to be done, but already many departments have
improved such things as communications with staff, career development, discipline and
general supervision. The Staff Relations Division of Civil Service Branch has likewise
expanded its contacts with all levels of staff.
71. In May this year we completed our review of arrangements for housing civil servants.
We concluded that as a good employer we should aim at assisting all permanent civil
servants who can reasonably afford it to purchase their own homes. A consultative
document setting out the Government’s proposals for home purchase allowances has
already been issued to the whole
18 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979
service and the views of staff are now awaited. This may not be the best time to launch a
home purchase scheme, but it is in my view important that we make a start as soon as
practicable. The Government is determined to develop a practical scheme for the benefit of
as many staff as possible.
72. Before leaving the subject of the public service I should say that it seems to me, in
retrospect, that in our anxiety to press ahead with the expansion of Government activities
we have probably paid insufficient attention to the needs of the public service itself. To
rectify this requires both a new psychological approach, and new machinery―that is to say
the Standing Commission. We intend to use both.
73. I am well aware of the many and varied pressures under which the civil service has to
work and I am grateful for the loyalty and hard work of all those who have overcome the
pressures and got on with the job so enthusiastically during this past year.
CULTURAL AND LEISURE ACTIVITIES
74. The encouragement of cultural and leisure activities is now accepted by your
Government as a major obligation in the circumstances of Hong Kong. Last year I referred
to the work done by the Government, the Urban Council, and voluntary agencies to
stimulate interest in the arts, leisure time activities, and sports and I mentioned the
extraordinary speed and breadth, and popularity of this development. This has continued
and I will not go over the list again this year except, out of the many items, to mention three
which have made exceptional progress.
75. The first is the Youth Instrumental Music Training Scheme organized by the Music
Administrator’s Office under the general supervision of the Director of Education.
76. This aims firstly to develop the instrumental skills of young people with which Hong
Kong is richly endowed. The scheme has expanded rapidly and a total of 266 classes are
now held weekly. Seven youth orchestras, both Chinese and Western have been organized
by this office and two of these have just completed a tour of 17 cities in Great Britain and
France. They won golden opinions both as musicians and as ambassadors for Hong Kong.
Its second aim has been to bring music to as wide a cross-section of the population as
possible, and as anyone who has attended its quadraphonic open air concerts will know,
there is nothing muted about its approach to this brief. This is a relatively new development
from which I hope many people will draw enjoyment and which should do much for Hong
Kong’s proficiency and reputation as an artistic centre.
77. The second item is the impressive development of our Recreation and Sport Service.
From small beginnings at the end of 1974, when the Service only included only 9
professional staff, it has grown to an establishment of 135 professional officers, and
hundreds more part-time staff to help to run the various programmes.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979 19
78. Some 350,000 participants annually now take part in over 2,700 projects, ranging from
the very popular camps, excursions and other outdoor pursuits, to fitness programmes, team
and individual games, and including such “growth” areas as dance, ice-skating, horse-riding
and archery.
79. The third item I wish to mention is our country parks. To meet a very healthy demand
the Country Parks Authority has completed its designation programme eighteen months
ahead of schedule, and 21 country parks have been established covering almost 40% of
Hong Kong’s total area.
80. This designation holds the line, it prevents enjoyment of the attractions of these areas
being pre-empted by development except after defined processes of consideration. The
Authority’s management infrastructure is being steadily expanded so as to meet the
challenge of how to protect and keep undefiled, as well as to develop, beautify, and
encourage the proper use of these great areas. If imaginatively developed and properly used
and maintained, these parks should be one of the distinctive features of Hong Kong.
81. The speed of development in the cultural and leisure activities organized by your
Government, and the dramatic growth in their popularity, have led us to consider the
administrative structure required. The Recreation and Sport Service and the Music
Administrator’s Office have their separate objectives but underlying the work of both is the
creation of community spirit through provision for communal leisure time activities. Both
were temporarily housed in the Education Department. It has now been decided that the
Secretary for Home Affairs, who is already responsible for Government’s overall policy on
the development of culture in Hong Kong, will take into his Branch, executive control of
both the Recreation and Sport Service and the Music Administrator’s Office. Later a new
executive department may be considered. As part of this rearrangement, the Secretary for
Home Affairs will also take over the policy aspects of recreation in country parks so that all
recreation policy will become the responsibility of one Secretary. But the will be no change
in the arrangements for the administration of the country parks which are working so well.
LABOUR
Legislation
82. During the last session several amendments to the Employment Ordinance were
enacted, including widening of its coverage to protect more non-manual workers;
tightening of the provisions dealing with paid annual leave; extending the present minimum
age of 14 for employment in the industrial sector to the non-industrial sector as from last
month, and raising the minimum age of employment in all sectors of employment to 15
with effect from September 1980. These last two changes were made to coincide with the
introduction of compulsory junior secondary education.
20 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979
83. The phased programme to prohibit overtime for young persons aged 16 and 17 in
industry will be completed by January 1980, but I am advised that the effect on industry
will be minimal.
84. The recommendations of the working party set up to review the Workmen’s
Compensation Ordinance are being considered by your Government, and the more urgent
proposals will be put to you during this session.
85. The silicosis compensation scheme approved by this Council last year has proved
unexpectedly difficult to implement, and details of a revised scheme have just been
finalized and amending legislation will be introduced.
Industrial Safety
86. A word about industrial safety. Its state is something of which we cannot be proud.
The Government’s responsibility is to enact and enforce safety legislation and to undertake
safety education; the employers’ responsibility is to provide a safe working environment
and to instruct their employees in safe practices; the workers’ responsibility is to abide by
safety rules and to use safety equipment provided for them. The Government is playing its
part by progressively enacting the necessary legislation and improving the effectiveness of
its enforcement machinery, but it is essential for employers and workers too to play their
respective roles in order to reduce the unacceptably high number of industrial accidents.
Industrial Training
87. The importance of a comprehensive scheme of industrial training is recognized by both
your Government and industry. But we must get the method of financing right. The advice
of the Advisory Committee on Diversification has therefore been sought on the Training
Council’s proposal to finance training through a general levy.
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL
The Public Finances
88. Before reviewing our economy I will describe very briefly the state of our public
finances. Revenue collections so far this year have exceeded expectations at the time of the
Budget and are forecast to surpass the original estimate. But any increased revenue will be
absorbed in meeting increased expenditure on both the recurrent and capital accounts.
Additional expenditure, which was not provided for in the Estimates, is being incurred as a
result of the 1979 civil service salary awards, and the introduction of higher public
assistance rates. Payments under the Defence Costs Agreement have also risen following
pay awards to the armed services and as a result of the appreciation of sterling.
89. In countering illegal immigration from China and dealing with the inflow of refugees
from Vietnam it has been necessary to undertake considerable
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979 21
commitments not foreseen when the Estimates were prepared. This has included
reinforcement of the garrison, additional staff for the Immigration Department, the
replacement of police launches, and the provision for refugees.
90. On capital account, total expenditure on the Public Works Programme is likely to be
about 25% greater than provided for in the Estimates, and this is due to some additional
commitments on such things as refugee camps as well as to substantial increases in
construction costs.
91. While a surplus is still expected it is not possible to say at this stage how closely it will
coincide with that provided for in the budget.
The Economy
92. In 1978, the economy experienced double digit growth for the third year running. After
allowing for inflation, the growth rate of our gross domestic product was 17% in 1976, 12%
in 1977 and 10% in 1978, and this is remarkable and unmatched by most economies in the
world. As this performance was achieved against the background of an increasing shortage
of labour, labour benefitted through substantial increases in wages.
93. However, three years of rapid economic growth created problems for the economy,
and by 1978 these problems had become matters of concern. With the growth rate of
demand, particularly domestic demand, exceeding the growth rate of the economy’s output,
the rate of imports accelerated more rapidly than the growth of exports. Thus, our visible
trade deficit widened and the exchange rate of the Hong Kong Dollar depreciated.
Inevitably this depreciation led to increased prices for imports which, together with excess
demand, threatened to accelerate inflation. Furthermore, there was a shift in the distribution
of resources away from the manufacturing sector. Reflecting all these problems, during
1978 growth rates of the money supply and of bank loans were getting increasingly out of
line with those of the other economic aggregates. Whilst market forces would in time
correct these tendencies, by the end of the year, it was apparent that some form of
intervention to help the adjustment process was necessary.
94. Thus we entered 1979, and various measures were taken in this year’s Budget to help
to slow down the growth rate of overall demand to a level more consistent with the growth
rate of the economy’s output, and to do so in such a way as to facilitate a relative shift in
the distribution of resources back to the manufacturing sector. These included a slow down
in the growth rate of Government spending particularly with a view to easing pressures on
the building and construction industry.
95. Steps were also taken to influence the monetary aggregates so that they grew in a
manner consistent with our economic circumstances, and these included:―measures to
reduce the amount of Government balances that could be on-lent by banks; powers to alter
minimum liquidity ratios; and the raising of interest rates.
22 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979
96. To reduce overall demand in an economy like Hong Kong’s in which the size of the
public sector is relatively small, clearly it is the action of the private sector that is important.
Nevertheless a contribution by the public sector was essential for macro-economic reasons,
and because the public sector does have a significant influence on demand, particularly in
the building and construction industry. The growth in public works had been so rapid as to
outrun the building and construction industry’s capacity. The growth rate of Government
expenditure was accordingly reduced from 25% in real terms in the period 77/78 - 78/79 to
7.5% in this year’s Estimates. This decision was devised so as to leave relatively untouched
the plans laid down in white papers for the expansion of education, medical and health
services, and social services. But it bore down heavily on public works, because of their
very rapid growth, because of cost inflation, and the over extension of the building industry.
While expenditure on works continued to grow it was at a much slower pace, and many
highly desirable projects had to be rephased. I should add that in this rephasing process
very high priority was retained for housing and housing related projects and amenities.
97. All the evidence now indicates that in 1979 the tendency is for adjustment in the right
direction. The growth rate of demand is more in line with the growth rate of the economy’s
ability to produce and so the growth rate of imports is slowing down. At the same time, our
domestic exports are growing quickly―our exporters have done a magnificent job―so that
the growth rate of total exports is now faster than the growth rate of imports, reversing the
worrying trend in 1978. Thus our visible trade deficit has narrowed and this, together with
higher interest rates, is helping to stabilize the exchange rate of the Hong Kong Dollar.
Finally there has been a most welcome shift in the redistribution of resources back in favour
of the manufacturing sector.
98. Reflecting these favourable developments, the money supply is now growing at a rate
actually lower than the growth rate of the gross domestic product at current prices thus
reversing the trend we witnessed last year. The growth rate of bank advances has also
slowed down, though not yet sufficiently.
99. Nevertheless excess overall demand still persists with consequent pressure on prices.
With world prices accelerating at the same time due, in part, to sharp increases in oil prices,
consumer prices in Hong Kong are now increasing at around 11%. Building and
construction costs are increasing at the extraordinary rate of no less than 30% to 40%.
100. So, while some of the economic problems that we faced are beginning to subside,
some persist. In particular, inflation, both imported inflation and domestically generated
inflation, is running at an uncomfortable rate. Imported inflation is something that we
cannot avoid when world prices are accelerating. But there is also domestically generated
inflation because demand is still out of line with the economy’s output. It must be the object
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979 23
of Government and business community alike to play their part in moderating demand
before excess imposes its own painful remedy. For the private sector this involves the
foregoing of some short-term profit for the sake of long-term stability and evenness of
growth. This is a highly responsible community about important matters, and this is a
situation which calls for responsibility by all.
101. Meanwhile, because of the very buoyant demand for domestic exports, it appears
likely that the economy will record a growth rate in real terms as high as 12% in 1979
compared with the budget forecast of 7%. Although four years of double digit growth is, by
all standards, remarkable, it has not been latterly all that it appears to be. One reason is the
underlying situation of excessive demand to which I have referred. The other is because the
likely growth rate of domestic product at around 5% in per capita terms in 1979 represents
a slowing down from the growth rate of 7.8 in per capita terms in 1978 and will not be
significantly different from what we expected at the beginning of this year despite the much
faster than forecast growth rate of the economy. The reason is this year’s influx of
immigrants and refugees. Instead of a growth rate of around 2% for the population in 1979,
we have had to endure a growth rate of a little over 5 per cent (excluding Vietnamese
refugees) which is twice the rate experienced in the seventies.
102. Turning now to the outlook for 1980: economic prospects are uncertain, particularly
as the economic outlook for the world continues to be dominated by the oil situation.
Although present forecasts point to a much slower rate of increase in OPEC prices in 1980
than in 1979, there is no doubt that it will still have a substantial effect both on world
inflation and on the growth rate of world output in 1980. What this will mean to Hong
Kong will depend on a host of other factors; but with the growth rate of the volume of
world trade in manufactures being forecast to slow down from 7% in 1979 to about 5½% in
1980, it is clear that the external factors affecting Hong Kong may be less favourable.
103. Against this background, it is difficult to take a view on the prospective demand for
our products. The growth in our domestic exports to the United States will be only a meagre
3% this year, reflecting the sharper than expected slow down in the growth rate of the
Unites States economy from 4% in 1978 to less than 2% this year. Recent forecasts predict
that the gross domestic product in the United States in 1980 will slow down further to just
about 1% although an upturn is expected towards the second half of the year.
104. At 4%, the economy of the Federal Republic of Germany is experiencing a higher
than expected growth rate this year, but for next year, present forecasts point to less than
3%, and if this slowing down materializes, it may have implications for us.
24 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979
105. Despite a sharp slowing down in the growth rate of the gross domestic product of
the United Kingdom from over 3% in 1978 to only ½% in 1979, our export performance to
this market is impressive. This is probably because consumer demand in the United
Kingdom, though slacking is still growing at a rate of over 4%. But this is expected to slow
down in 1980, so the present growth rate of exports to the United Kingdom seems unlikely
to continue.
106. However, I am not pessimistic about our prospects in 1980. A slowdown in
economic growth in our major markets may not necessarily mean there will be a similar
drop in sales of the sort of things Hong Kong supplies. But it is true that our exports of
textiles and clothing are now running very close to the limits imposed by quantitative
restrictions and so such rapid growth in our domestic exports as this year should be difficult
if not impossible. This of course means that trading up, and the search for new markets and
new products must be unremitting.
107. On the other hand, there is the re-emerging role of Hong Kong as an entrepot.
Although it is still too early to say conclusively that this development will continue, it
would be prudent to assume that the re-export trade, together with the tertiary services in
general and the financial services sector and tourist sector in particular, will become
relatively more important in terms of their contribution to our economic prosperity.
108. If there is an easing of export orders, as some expect at the end of this year and in
the first half of next, taken in conjunction with the other measures I have described, it
should relax some of the over-stretch in demand for labour and goods and restrain inflation.
But my concern is that if this relaxation is forced on us from this unwelcome quarter the
growth rate of domestic demand should already be reduced and thus release resources that
can be devoted to maintaining our exports on a competitive basis. Otherwise, if private
consumption is maintained in spite of reduced exports, we will be thrown into greater
disequilibrium and be unable to take advantage of increased demand for our exports when it
eventually comes―hopefully in the second half of next year. But if export orders do not
ease appreciably, and this too is possible, it is all the more important to ensure that
excessive pressure from domestic demand does not make it impossible to take advantage of
this favourable situation.
109. While therefore our economy has performed in many ways better than expected, and
future prospects, though hard to forecast with accuracy, are far from bad, there can be no
relaxation in our efforts to contain the growth of domestic demand and inflation.
Advisory Committee on Diversification
110. Much of what I have said about the economy emphasizes the importance of
obtaining clear advice on whether there is anything we should or should not be doing to
encourage further diversification of our economy.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979 25
111. The Advisory Committee on Diversification is producing a definitive study of the
present situation and will advise how policies should be changed so as to benefit our future.
It has completed its investigations and is now in the middle of preparing its report. I expect
to receive this next month. It will be published in English and Chinese.
Legislation on Company Law, Securities, Commoditites, Insurance and Banking
112. A number of legislative proposals on commercial law will be put before you during
the current session. The most significant will be a major revision of the Companies
Ordinance. Most of the changes involve up-dating the law to provide for evolving
commercial practices and many of them have been foreshadowed in the Second Report of
the Companies Law Revision Committee. Proposals of such a complex and comprehensive
nature have necessarily taken time but when they have passed into law they should ensure a
greater flow of information to potential investors and provide greater protection for
shareholders of listed public companies.
113. Proposals to up-date the Securities Ordinance and the Commodities Trading
Ordinance in the light of operational experience to enhance the protection of investors will
also be introduced. We are hopeful that we shall make further progress on legislation to
regulate the insurance industry.
114. A bill to implement a system of minimum liquidity ratios for deposit-taking
companies will be introduced very shortly. The bill will also widen the list of specified
liquid assets for deposit-taking companies from the list originally proposed last year; and
another bill will be introduced to amend the list of specified liquid assets for banks.
Tourism
115. Improved communications and the growth of the Chinese tourist industry add a new
dimension to our own thriving tourist industry, and I hope the two industries can
collaborate to their mutual advantage.
116. Last year more than two million tourists visited Hong Kong and those being drawn
to China are bound to swell that number in years ahead. The present number of hotel rooms
―at about 14,400―is insufficient. But confidence in the future of the industry is high and
by the end of 1981 there will be over 20,000. Tourism should continue to make a useful
economic contribution, although in net terms the contribution is being increasingly offset
by the expenditure of Hong Kong residents travelling abroad.
The Consumer Council
117. The Consumer Council was established five-and-a-half years ago to give consumers
advice, and some assurance against exploitation in a situation of rapidly rising prices. It had
immediate success. Among its many activities are the improvement of consumer protection
legislation, and consumer
26 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979
education. Some simple consumer protection laws will be put before you for amendment or
enactment. These will include amendments to the Trade Descriptions Ordinance and the
Weights and Measures Ordinance and the introduction of a bill to regulate hire purchase.
MAJOR GOVERNMENT PROGRAMMES
118. Now, against the background of the economic situation and budgetary strategy I
have described, I will report briefly on how we have progressed with some of our major
programmes, and will start with housing.
Housing
119. Last year I forecast the production of Government housing would rise from 18,000
flats last year to 45,000 this year and could thereafter be maintained at a level between
40,000 and 45,000 until the mid-80s. I did so in the mistaken belief that domestic demand,
and in particular domestic demand affecting the construction industry, would shortly ease.
As you know it did not do so, and still has not done so. In the knowledge of hindsight I am
doubtful if, for purely technical and administrative reasons, the target of 45,000 could ever
have been achieved. But it became clear that to attempt even to approach it would only be
at the expense of intolerable strain on the whole construction industry, which is expected to
produce additionally 30,000 flats for the private sector as well as catering for a whole range
of massive public and private works.
120. Against this background, and the review of public sector expenditure generally,
your Government decided on a lower target of 35,000 units a year for rented and home
ownership accommodation. This is still about double last year and an extraordinarily high
level of production, and when coupled with the 30,000 units in the private sector, should
make steady in-roads into this chronic problem of housing shortage. In this connection it is
encouraging that 70% of new flats purchased in the private sector are for owner-occupiers.
Nevertheless given the dimensions of the need for housing, its aggravation by immigration,
and the acute personal, economic and administrative problems that will exist until it is met,
I would be reluctant to accept the present balance between private and public sector
building as permanent, at any rate at present prices. In the short term it may be acceptable
―we are in a situation in which virtually all new housing is beneficial―but we should
ponder the social and economic implications of the high prices charged for private sector
housing being built into the budgets of an ever widening section of our population.
Similarly we must weigh the public advantage of the demands on the construction industry
generally of public works on the one hand and private construction on the other.
121. There is nothing immutable about the figure of 35,000: in different economic
circumstances it should be possible to improve on it. But short of the most imperative of
economic situations we must not allow ourselves to drop below it.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979 27
122. So the housing programme continues to be of prime importance, and in the review
of public sector expenditure it was rightly given very high priority. Since I last spoke to you
the need for public housing has been shown to be greater rather than less than was first
calculated. It is now clear that we must roll forward the housing programme after 1985,
probably at about present levels. Investigation of additional sites to take the programme to
the end of the 80s is being undertaken.
123. The public housing programme is designed to assist the lower income group, that is
the majority of the population. But it has become apparent that families in the income band
immediately above the limit of $5,000 per month for the Home Ownership Scheme, are
experiencing real difficulties at the moment. The projected figures suggest that the supply
of flats of 800-1200 square feet will remain limited and that this problem will therefore
continue for some time. Although priority must continue to be given to those who need help
most, Government should not ignore the position of this relatively small group. I have
therefore ordered a review, in the context of our housing policy as a whole, of the position
of this group. I realize that economic constraints and our existing priorities and
commitments may not permit a complete solution, but certainly the problem deserves
careful and immediate consideration.
124. It is not only from the lower or middle income bracket that pressure for housing is
coming. An acute shortage of high-class housing has developed as a result of the expansion
of our financial and commercial sectors, and to some extent in response to expectations
created by new economic policies in China. While there can be no quick solution to this
problem, special measures are being taken to put land on the market suitable for building to
meet this demand. We are also considering by new construction and more intensive
development of Government property how to reduce the demands on privately owned
accommodation made by the Government for its own employees; so pressure on the
building industry will continue from many sides and I hope it will gear itself to the demand
it can expect.
New Territories―Development
125. Much of this new public and private housing is and will be in the New Territories. A
few years ago the pace of this development was accelerated wherever possible, now we
have to slow down the pace because of the capacity restraints within which we have to
work. This means not that we have abandoned any projects, but only that we have to accept
later completion of some of them. But a visit to Sha Tin or Tuen Mun will dispel any fear
that the construction of these new communities, with their prospect of such an improved
quality of life, has lost its momentum.
126. To give some examples, in Sha Tin work is in full swing on the teaching hospital
and polyclinic which will provide comprehensive medical facilities by 1982, while in Tuen
Mun the planning layout for the town centre has
28 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979
been completed and the land sales which will lead to an integrated commercial and
residential centre covering some 16 hectares and which will be associated with a town park
of some 12 hectares will begin early next year. To make up for past deficiencies, in Tsuen
Wan three secondary schools have been completed this year and five are under construction.
In Tsuen Wan also, a splendid new town hall, which will add an entirely new dimension not
only to the life of Tsuen Wan but to the whole of Hong Kong, will be opened early next
year.
127. The Housing Authority currently has 35 contracts let for estates in the New
Territories alone for the production of some 57,000 flats over two and a half years, and over
the same period the private sector is expected to complete a further 28,000 flats in the New
Territories. Surely this is progress.
128. None of the housing amenities, schools and landscaped surroundings would be of
any value without employment. And the new towns are not intended as dormitories. So the
progress of industry in the New Territories is vital. Up to 30 September 748,000 square
metres of factory accommodation has been completed this year and approximately 50,000
square metres of industrial land have been sold. In addition to the continuing development
of these light industrial areas, Stage I of the Tai Po Industrial Estate has been completed on
schedule, 20 factory sites have been let and four more expected to be let soon, and the first
factory will open in the Spring. Stage II of the Estate should be completed by the end of
next year. In the west, at Yuen Long, an industrial estate will provide 72 hectares of
industrial sites by mid-1982, with the first phase due for completion early in 1980. These
special industrial areas are bound to have a substantial effect on the future development and
prosperity of the northern New Territories.
New Territories―Compensation
129. Development on the scale being undertaken has meant the resumption of large areas
of land and the up-rooting of thousands of people. It is never possible to compensate people
fully for an often unwanted change in their way of life, but your Government is fully aware
of the need to offer compensation which is full and fair. The recommendations of the
Working Group on Land Acquisition chaired by Sir Yuet-keung KAN have been put into
operation and have worked well. The land sales programmes has been redrawn to give
priority to those holding land exchange entitlements and every effort is being made to keep
this programme rolling forward. Nevertheless we must continue to keep the system as a
whole under review and to ensure that it remains workable as circumstances change.
130. In addition to compensation for landowners, compensation is also given to occupiers
affected by development under a schedule which now contains no less than 41 different
items. No list, however, can be comprehensive and we must always be ready to alleviate
genuine hardship and to adapt our policies to meet changing circumstances while standing
firm where requests
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979 29
are unreasonable or excessive. There are occasional incidents in clearances which attract
attention. But to put these in perspective we must remember that for instance in North
Tsuen Wan alone over 20,000 people have been moved within the last twelve months and I
would like to pay tribute to those who have, by the exercise of patience and fairmindedness,
achieved this with the consent and co-operation of the overwhelming majority of the people
affected.
Land Production for Sale
131. Honourable Members have frequently expressed their concern about the adequacy
of the Government’s production of new land for sale.
132. On a fairly conservative estimate, at least 40 net hectares of general industrial land
and 80 hectares of non-industrial land will have been put on the market before 31 March
1982. I am advised that these areas should yield some 3½ million square metres of industrial
floor space, or an addition of about 45% to the present stock, and that the non-industrial
land has a potential for about 55,000 flats of various sizes besides offices and other
commercial premises. The industrial land is in addition to the Hong Kong Industrial Estates
Corporation’s production, and the large areas being formed for the two new power stations
at Tap Shek Kok and Lamma, and the sites under investigation for high class housing which
I have already referred to. Though these figures are greater than we have achieved in the
past, I doubt if they are adequate to our needs, and every effort will be made to improve on
them.
New Development Areas
133. The latest forecasts once more show a falling off of land for all purposes expected to
be produced in the mid-80s. So there is a need to make further plans now to open up new
development areas to provide a continuous supply of land for public housing and for the
sales programmes in the years ahead. If continuity is to be maintained, it will be necessary
to start work soon on both an extension of Sha Tin up the eastern side of the Cove, and on
the development of Junk Bay.
134. At this stage it is not possible to say to what extent resources for these developments
will conflict with those for other works which have been rephased or are of high priority.
But clearly failure to spend now on land production would seriously restrict our future
development. North Lantau of course remains an ultimate possibility, but meanwhile we
await the consultants’ report.
Transport and Communications
135. This summer saw the publication of the White Paper on Transport. It stimulated a
lively debate among the public, in the media and, not least, in this Council.
30 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979
The Mass Transit Railway
136. As regards public transport, the first stage of the Mass Transit Railway line has
already opened on time and within budget. The second stage, as far as Tsim Sha Tsui, will
open at the end of December and the third stage, across the harbour, in February―that is
well ahead of schedule. This early completion within the estimated cost, will be a unique
achievement for so complex a development and is one of the most exciting transport
happenings in Hong Kong for many years, and I congratulate the Chairman, the Board, the
staff, and the many contractors. At the same time I would like to express the Government’s
appreciation of the patience of all those who have been affected in one way or other by the
construction works. Once everything is back in place, we must make a major effort to get
the streets neater and cleaner than they have ever been before. Let us be as quick to restore
order and comfort as we were to destroy it under the compulsions of the railway’s
construction, and I look to all concerned to see that this is done.
The Kowloon-Canton Railway (Hong Kong Section)
137. The growth of population in the Eastern New Territories and the rapid expansion of
railway freight from China has made the modernization and electrification of the Hong
Kong section of the Kowloon-Canton Railway urgently needed. But the target of
completion of double-tracking and electrification to Lo Wu by the end of 1981―which I
mentioned last year―has proved beyond our resources, and about the end of 1982 is now a
more likely timing.
Light Rail Transit System
138. Light Rail Transit systems are under consideration both for Hong Kong Island and
for Tuen Mun/Yuen Long. The outcome will be put to you in due course.
Buses
139. Steps are being taken, with the co-operation of the two bus companies, to expand
and improve bus services. I will leave the Secretary for the Environment to speak on this
popular and very important subject.
Roads
140. Much progress has been made with the road programme. Major projects which have
been completed or are due for completion over the coming year are the Ap Lei Chau Bridge,
the approach roads to the Aberdeen Tunnel, the Tuen Mun by-pass, and flyovers at Stubbs
Road, Robinson Road/ Glenealy and Pokfulam Road/Hill Road. The Aberdeen Tunnel itself
will be finished by mid-1981 and, when open, will dramatically improve access between
the two sides of Hong Kong Island and have a significant effect on development
possibilities on the south side.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979 31
141. Your Government, in consultation with the Cross-Harbour Tunnel Company, is
commissioning an investigation into expanding cross-harbour transport.
142. Although, as I have explained, a great deal is being done, the road programme was
quite heavily affected by rephasing of public works to reduce the growth rate of
Government expenditure and the demands it was making on the construction industry. The
projects which have had to be deferred and I repeat deferred, for the time being include: the
Hong Kong Island Eastern Corridor, the Sha Tin/Tai Po coastal road, the completion of the
Tuen Mun highway, the widening of Princess Margaret flyover and the second stage of the
West Kowloon Corridor. These projects are all badly needed and delay is frustrating, but it
is part of the price that must be paid to ensure continuing economic health.
Medical and Health Services
143. The plan for development of medical and health services is proceeding well.
Projects completed during the last 12 months include phase I of the expansion programme
of the Yan Chai Hospital and the extension of the Caritas Medical Centre. The former will
provide 50 general beds and the latter 576 beds for the elderly and the mentally retarded.
The completion of the Princess Margaret Hospital Psychiatric Wing next year will provide
another 1,300 beds for the mentally ill and will reduce the present overcrowding at the
Castle Peak Hospital. The new wing of the Kwong Wah Hospital should also be completed
in 1980. This will augment the facilities of the hospital as the regional hospital for West
Kowloon.
144. Construction of the superstructure of the 1,400-bed Sha Tin Hospital is about to
commence and will be completed by 1982.
145. Planning is also in hand for a major hospital in Tuen Mun, scheduled originally for
completion in mid-1985. However it is possible that this may be somewhat rephased.
146. Following opening of the MacLehose Dental Centre and the Dental Therapists
Training School a dental care programme for primary school children will be introduced as
from November this year. The Dental Teaching Hospital is due to be completed by this time
next year, and the first batch of 60 locally trained dentists is expected to graduate in 1985.
147. The medical services have been regionalized since April 1977, so as to use
resources better. There are at present four hospital regions each of which is served by a
regional hospital, one or more district hospitals and a number of general and specialist
clinics. The aim is to ensure a more even use of hospital beds and that patients are treated
with the level of facilities most appropriate to their condition. Since the regionalization
scheme was implemented, beds in subvented hospitals have been more fully used and
pressure on the regional hospitals has eased.
32 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979
Social Welfare
148. The main lines along which our system of social welfare and security will develop
have now been defined in the White Paper on Rehabilitation Services published in 1977 and
in the White Paper on Social Welfare published this year. The plans are not immutable and
will be reviewed and adjusted from time to time, but they do give us a clear framework for
expansion and a defined time scale for action and improvement.
149. Shortage of trained manpower will continue to restrict progress for sometime, both
in the social welfare field and in that of rehabilitation, and later in the debate the Director of
Social Welfare will be explaining what is being done about it, but subject to this,
implementation of the plans is proceeding well.
150. The proposals for a voluntary contributory sickness, injury and death benefit
scheme, mooted in the Green Paper on Social Security Development, are still being
discussed and no conclusion has yet been reached on the best way to proceed.
151. The new Traffic Accident Victims Assistance Scheme began operation in May. This
provides immediate cash assistance to victims of traffic accidents and their dependants
regardless of fault or income level. It has already proved a useful addition to our welfare
system.
152. Last April the Social Welfare Department was regionalized. The new structure is
working smoothly and District Social Welfare Officers are able to keep in closer touch with
both District Officers and voluntary agencies and others involved in community work in
their regions.
153. A working party of Government representatives has been reviewing the present
subvention system for social welfare services. It is expected to report shortly and the
voluntary sector will be consulted before any changes are made.
154. Progress in implementing the programme in the Rehabilitation White Paper
published two years ago has been substantial. I am sure that much is due to the vigorous
efforts of Dr. FANG as well as of department heads concerned. Now I will leave it to the
Secretary for Social Services to describe the progress made.
Education
155. At the opening of the last session of this Council I announced that a White Paper on
Senior Secondary and Tertiary Education would shortly be published, and summarized its
main proposals. These provided for a substantial increase in subsidized senior secondary
and tertiary education to be phased in between this year and about 1986. Generally
speaking it was well received and plans are proceeding.
156. The provision of the planned number of senior secondary school places requires 130
schools. Financial constraints, but more particularly geotechnical
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979 33
problems, have combined to delay 12 of these and will temporarily extend our reliance on
bought places in private schools.
157. Two of the three approved post-secondary colleges have accepted the Government’s
offer of financial assistance from September 1979 and will restructure their existing
programmes to provide separate two-year courses at sixth form and post-Form VI levels.
This will provide an additional 1,700 subsidized places at both sixth form and post-sixth
form levels.
158. As regards the Universities, the enrolment during the current session is some 9,560
compared with the target for 1980-81 of 10,330. At the Polytechnic the number of full-time
equivalent students is now 10,970 with no difficulty foreseen in reaching the target figure
of 11,400 by 1980-81.
159. Consideration is being given by the institutions and others concerned to the
introduction of part-time university degree courses, and to the introduction at the
Polytechnic of a limited degree course as well as concentration on other higher level work.
160. The review of primary and pre-primary education which I mentioned last year is
nearing completion. The two working parties have submitted their reports and a green paper
is being prepared and should be published before the end of the year. It will set out the
problems at the pre-primary and primary levels and make proposals for dealing with them.
161. Implementation of plans to provide a free junior secondary place for every child has
proceeded smoothly, and the whole age group will be in school by September next year,
and so a milestone in Hong Kong’s educational progress will have been passed.
162. Broadly speaking we have now reviewed, debated, and finally defined our
development plans for junior and senior secondary and tertiary education, and these plans
are being implemented. Plans covering primary and preprimary education should have
passed through a similar process of proposal, debate, and definition quite soon. These are
our own plans to suit Hong Kong’s own circumstances evolved by the Education
Department and Board of Education in the light of public comment, and I hope by the mid80s will have provided Hong Kong with a much better educational system. To make doubly
sure that our plans are on the right lines and before they have progressed too far, we
envisage an overall review to look at our education system as a whole, and in particular the
relationship of the various parts which we have reviewed separately. I hope that this will be
done about the beginning of 1981.
RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED KINGDOM
163. As I mentioned at the beginning of this speech, external affairs have played some
part in the year that has passed. In these we have had most helpful and positive support
from the British Government. We are all accustomed to saying that Hong Kong stands on
three legs―its own prosperity
34 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979
and cohesion, co-operation with China, and the support of the United Kingdom. We have
traditionally spent much thought on the first two, and rightly, but we have been apt to take
the third for granted. Assurances of British support in any event have never been lacking,
but for our relationship to be sound it must be a two-way affair, based on a commercial as
well as a political relationship which is felt to be both welcome and mutually beneficial. It
is therefore a happy augury that the Ministers directly responsible for Hong Kong should
both have visited us so soon after taking office, and that they should have done this in a
year in which it looks as if British exports to Hong Kong will be over £ 400 million. For
our part we have recognized the importance of Hong Kong/British relations by establishing
a strong and vigorous Commission in London and by the encouragement of British
commercial interest in Hong Kong and by cultural and other exchanges.
164. I am sure that the evolving relations of the United Kingdom with China, as well as a
more realistic appreciation in the United Kingdom of Hong Kong as a market, and as a
point of contact with China and the Western Pacific region, will add new substance to the
United Kingdom/Hong Kong relationship, which means so much to us, but about which we
ten to speak so little.
CONCLUSION
165. I must apologize for the length at which I have spoken but the field of our
administration and its complexities increase as Hong Kong expands as a great centre of
industry, commerce, communications and finance, and as its social and cultural
infrastructure is developed proportionately.
166. Broadly speaking we have passed through another year of reasonable prosperity,
illuminated by a truly magnificent effort by our export industry and in which substantial
further progress has been made with the programmes on which the future economic and
social welfare of Hong Kong depend. If we have had to progress a little slower in some
fields than we had once hoped, it is the price we have had to pay today for continued and
healthy expansion tomorrow. No prudent Government would have acted differently and I
have always emphasized the need for flexibility in implementing year by year our long term
programmes. Nevertheless, even where this year the pace has eased, we have still made
progress that in most other communities would be considered very substantial, and of
course when the progress is considered over the past four years as a whole it is phenomenal.
167. From this we can draw both hope and courage, for I am deeply conscious of how
much needs to be done. We have prepared and gained general support for plans to build a
better, fuller, and expanding economic and social life in Hong Kong. With the support of
honourable Members and the public we have made and are making substantial progress in
implementing them. In such a grand design, stretching over a decade or more of varied
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―10 October 1979 35
endeavour, progress is bound to be uneven as fortune good and bad affects us. But after a
year which has included frustration as well as achievement, let me reiterate the
determination of your Government not to be deflected from our purpose.
168. Given five or six years of reasonable prosperity on the one hand and administrative
perserverance on the other, we have every prospect of seeing gradually emerge, from the
dust and the reclamations, from the clearances and construction sites, from the new
railways and highways, that transformation of economic and social life which I am
convinced can be and must be achieved if Hong Kong is to develop to play its rightful role.
It is in the Prospect of seeing two further years of advance towards this goal that I say how
pleased and honoured I am to preside over this Council and this Government for a further
two years―two years in which I hope I can count on the continuing advice and support of
honourable Members