INTRODUCTION
Welcome to new Members
1. First I would like to welcome Mr. CHAN and Mr. SWAINE to this Council.
UMELCO
2. There are far too few occasions on which I have an opportunity to give the work of
Members of U.M.E.L.C.O. the public acknowledgement it deserves. This is an occasion on
which it is my pleasure and my duty to do so. U.M.E.L.C.O. is a unique institution which
has evolved under imaginative and devoted leadership to perform a vital role in a
constitutional situation which is itself unique. It carries an ever increasing work-load, which
reflects the vigour with which it performs its legislative functions, the evolution of its
position as a court of counsel or appeal to the public, as well as the increasing complexity
and scope of the Government of Hong Kong. The time devoted by Members to their public
duties is enormous and I should like to record my deep personal debt of gratitude to them.
To ease their load two extra have been added to their number this year. In the light of
experience there could well be room for further additions.
3. Honourable Members will note that during the year the trend towards unofficial
chairmanship of statutory committees has continued. Mr. Lo Tak-shing has taken over the
chairmanship of the Transport Advisory Committee , and Miss DUNN of both the Special
Committee on Land Production and the governing body of the Prince Philip Dental
Hospital.
Scheme of speech
4. Honourable Members I think you will agree that this has proved a more prosperous
year for Hong Kong than most of us would have forecast at this time last year. I will start
this address by describing the performance
6 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980
of the economy and its prospects in the year ahead, and then go on to deal with the problem
of immigration which is becoming an insidious threat to our economic and social wellbeing. Against this background I will review progress in our major social programmes, and
also in services relating to law, order and security. After speaking about a group of
environmental problems―in land, pollution, transport, and the cleanliness of our city―I
will conclude by reviewing reactions to the Green Paper on District Administration , which
proposals, I might add, are highly germane to the group of environmental issues I have just
mentioned. During the year Hong Kong has shown a characteristic volatility for instance in
dealings in real estate and on the stock exchange. It is a natural response to confidence and
has rightly attracted attention. So has the problem of immigration from China and the
presence of Vietnamese refugees. But my report will show that underneath these more
newsworthy items much good work has been done. Businessmen and industrialists have
done splendidly in increasing production and exports; more is being built than ever before;
and as for your Government, it has, generally speaking, got on with its job of doing the
things it has said it would do to improve the standard and quality of life of our people,
while maintaining economic stability.
THE ECONOMY AND ITS PROSPECTS
5. So I will start with the economy. In 1979 the gross domestic product grew by 11% in
real terms. And this was the economy’s fourth consecutive year of rapid growth. Moreover
during it the problems of imbalance and overheating experienced in 1978 were reduced.
The growth rate of imports slowed down considerably because total final demand was more
in line with the economy’s output. There was also a redistribution of resources into the
manufacturing sector as domestic exports grew faster than domestic demand. Thus,
economic growth was once again export-led. This process was aided by the recovery of
demand in Hong Kong’s major markets in Europe. The slowing down of the growth rate of
public sector demand provided for in the 1979-80 budget particularly in respect of building
and construction also contributed. So economic growth in 1979 was associated with
stability to a much greater extent than in 1977 and 1978.
6. Immigration reduced the extreme tension in the labour market and helped
manufacturers to meet increased demand for exports by increasing output, but it also had a
significantly depressing effect on what the real incomes of our workers would otherwise
have been. And I shall return later to this and other aspects of our immigration problem.
7. But there were exceptions to the general picture of stability and rapid growth, most
notably as regards inflation. Excess demand persisted in such sectors as property and land
with consequent pressure on their prices. The rates of increase in world prices generally and
the prices for oil products in particular in 1979 were higher than we had expected. So Hong
Kong imported inflation, the impact of which was further intensified by the
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980 7
delayed effects of the depreciation of the Hong Kong dollar. So the rate of inflation
accelerated sharply.
8. This year, in 1980, in broad terms the economy has continued to adjust in the direction
set last year. The growth of the economy has continued to be export-led, and it is
satisfactory that exports have done so well despite the recessionary state of the economies
of Hong Kong’s major markets. The increase in domestic exports in the first eight months
of this year over the same period of last year of 28% in money terms, is truly remarkable.
The growth rate of domestic demand appears to be picking up but probably still lags behind
that of domestic exports.
9. Re-exports have grown rapidly in 1980 as Hong Kong’s re-emergence as a major
entrepot port continues, with much of the growth attributable to China’s trade.
10. The growth rate of the value of imports in 1980 has almost caught up with that of total
exports, presumably as a result of increased domestic demand. But the visible trade gap for
the first eight months of this year was still slightly narrower than for the same period last
year.
11. Pressure of demand on domestic resources has eased further in 1980, particularly in
the labour market. The seasonally adjusted unemployment rate for the economy as a whole
increased from 2.8% in September 1979 to 3.2% in March this year. I have no doubt that
the September figures will show a continuation of this trend. These percentages by current
world standards are very low, but the trend reflects an aspect of adjustment that presses
hard on some individuals, and of course the impact is made worse by the effects of
immigration.
12. There is also some indication that a closer balance is developing between the demand
for the output of the building and construction industry and the industry’s ability to supply.
Whilst building and construction costs are still increasing the rate of increase has eased
considerably. The property market which had been very much over-heated in 1979 cooled
somewhat this year at least partly as a result of higher interest rates and of the success of
developers in maintaining a high level of production.
13. So during 1980 domestically generated inflation has eased. Imported inflation was
dampened to some extent in the first half of 1980. So overall inflationary pressure in the
economy has been reducing during the year so far. But because of the substantial inflation
at the beginning of the year, the index of general price levels in 1980 is expected to average
about 14% higher than in 1979 instead of the 10% forecast in the budget.
14. This is a generally favourable picture, and it appears likely that the growth rate in real
terms of the gross domestic product will be somewhat higher than the budget forecast of
9%. But the growth rate of per capita gross domestic product in 1980 will depend on the
level of immigration.
8 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980
If, as seems likely, it is not much less than last year, once more the G.D.P. per head will
grow much more slowly than the G.D.P. itself.
15. Turning to economic prospects in the last months of 1980 and into 1981, the greatest
uncertainty lies in whether the high growth rate of domestic exports can be sustained.
Perhaps not, and export order books are reported to be getting shorter. But recession in our
export markets and demand for Hong Kong products often do not move on parallel lines,
and if the growth rates of imports of raw materials and semi-manufactures are anything to
go by, export prospects in the immediate future are much better than one might expect from
the otherwise poor performance of the economies of our main markets. But obviously war
in the Gulf, and the impossibility of assessing at this stage what effect it will have on oil
supplies and prices and the economies of our trading partners, makes the future particularly
difficult to forecast at this time. In the longer run, we should see a recovery in the world
economy and I remain confident that the stability of the Hong Kong economy will enable us
to take full benefit from it.
16. Although the longer-term prospects for growth of our economy remain good,
immigration threatens it in two ways. Firstly the dilution of the labour market is reducing
the growth of individual incomes, and this is grossly unfair to the individual worker.
Secondly though in the short term it may be beneficial to some employers, it is extremely
bad in the long term because it removes the incentive for higher productivity and movement
into the more sophisticated and capital intensive production. It is surely on the latter that we
hope to build Hong Kong’s future and the standard of living of our people, and not on a
relapse into cheap-labour enterprises whose products are more and more subject to
restriction in overseas markets.
17. Finally I am very much aware that in the course of the coming year we must
renegotiate the Multi-Fibre Agreement and that the outcome will be critical for us. With
unemployment so prevalent in our export markets political pressures for restriction will be
strong. At the same time, I am encouraged by the greater comprehension in Europe, though
to a lesser extent in North America, of the commercial and industrial realities that so often
make the case of protection untenable. I think it is also fairly generally realized that, as we
predicted, our bilateral restraints agreement with the E.E.C. did little or no good to either
the E.E.C. or the alleged beneficiaries of our sacrifice―the developing countries―but only
harmed our trade to the benefit of rich and developed competitor countries.
The public finances
18. As regards the state of our public finances, recurrent revenue this year is likely to
exceed the original estimate. But the excess will be more than offset by the estimated
increase in recurrent expenditure, due largely to the substantial increases in salaries.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980 9
19. The estimated deficit on the capital account in the budget is now expected to become a
surplus because revenue from land sales has been very much higher than even the
optimistic budget forecast. This results from the prices paid for some very valuable sites in
the urban area, and we cannot count on sites of this sort coming on the market every year.
However as the development works of the last few years bear fruit the greater volume of
land coming on the market should help to maintain income. Of course the value of land and
thus income from sales could be influenced by extraneous events, but by and large I think
we can continue to count on a substantial income from land sales provided we keep up our
land production programme and the ancillary works that make the land attractive to
developers.
20. While it is still too early to reach a conclusion on the final outturn, present indications
are that the budgetted surplus will be exceeded, due largely to the estimated increase in
revenue from land sales.
21. So, honourable Members, the picture I have to give of our economy is not at all bad,
and of our budgetary position, distinctly good.
Legislation of significance to the tertiary sector
22. With regard to legislation, this time last year I said that a number of legislative
proposals on commercial law would be put to you during the last session. Its object is partly
to build up international confidence in our tertiary sector, and partly to protect the small
investor and the consumer.
23. We have made good progress. A bill with some 255 clauses proposing to amend the
Companies Ordinance in the light of the recommendations in the second report of the
Companies Law Revision Committee has been published in the Gazette. We are now
analyzing the public reaction. Our intention is formally to put the Bill to this Council as
soon as the consultative process has been completed. Meanwhile, during the last session we
implemented a further recommendation of the Committee, dealing with lost share
certificates, ahead of the main Bill.
24. Our efforts to bring up-to-date the Securities Ordinance and the Commodities Trading
Ordinance to accord with our experience since the Securities Commission was established
was deflected by the need to concentrate on the Stock Exchange Unification Bill which
passed into law at the end of the last session. Nevertheless, work on the first draft of the
two amending bills is now fairly advanced and, provided the processes of consultation are
reasonably smooth, they should be before you in the coming session. In the meantime, the
Commodities Trading (Amendment) Ordinance was enacted in the last session to control
the activities of ‘fringe’ gold operators and also to strengthen control over trading practices
in commodities.
25. As I predicted last year we have made good progress with insurance legislation.
Interim legislation regarding paid up capital requirements and solvency margins for
insurance companies will be introduced very soon. As
10 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980
regards the comprehensive Bill, the Registrar General has been able to recruit appropriate
expertise; and I understand that if the present rate of production of the draft legislation and
if the co-operative attitude of the insurance industry continues, this Bill should also be put
to you in the coming session.
26. We have been less fortunate in our efforts to recruit expertise on weights and measures
with the result that we have not been able to make much progress with the Weights and
Measures Bill. But we are hopeful that an expert will be with the Trade, Industry and
Customs Department early next month, although this is unlikely to give us enough time to
get the Bill to you in the coming session. Other legislation designed to protect consumers
include the Pyramid Selling Prohibition Ordinance passed last session and progress with
difficult draft legislation to control hire purchase. The Trade Descriptions Bill is already
before this Council.
27. Legislation relating to deposit-taking companies was passed last session. For the
coming session we are planning bills to bring the Banking Ordinance and the DepositTaking Companies Ordinance into line with today’s requirements . A third bill we would
like to introduce would make the Exchange Banks Association into a statutory body.
28. A Monetary Statistics Ordinance aimed at getting more comprehensive statistics to
enable us to improve our measurement of developments in the monetary sector was enacted
in July, and it is hoped that it will be brought into force in time to allow us to start
collecting statistics from the end of this year. This is part of our on-going programme to
improve statistics on our rapidly growing tertiary sector.
29. Much of this legislation is germane to the recommendations of the Advisory
Committee on Diversification. Throughout the year, the Executive Council has been asked
to consider a steady flow of memoranda on the 47 recommendations of the Advisory
Committee. This process has been completed and the Executive Council is now getting
reports every six months on progress with implementation. And these progress reports will
be sent to Members of this Council for information.
IMMIGRATION PROBLEMS
30. I now turn to our two very different problems of Vietnamese boat refugees and
immigration from China.
Vietnamese Boat Refugees
31. When I addressed you last year, the signs were that the Geneva Conference in July had
achieved its immediate objectives of persuading the Vietnamese Government to stop the
organized outflow of ethnic Chinese and some Vietnamese, and of securing pledges in
money and resettlement places that would progressively relieve territories of first asylum
such as Hong Kong of the burden of these refugees.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980 11
32. In fact, in marked contrast to assistance given by countries of resettlement to the
countries of ASEAN, only half the refugees who were here last October have been resettled.
Though there have been arrivals direct from Vietnam, the numbers are not great, and are
consistent with the undertakings given by the Vietnamese Government at Geneva. At
present we still have 28,200 refugees from Vietnam in our care.
33. We are grateful for the help of all countries of resettlement, and for the work done by
the United Nations High Commission for Refugees and by our own and overseas voluntary
agencies. We are particularly grateful for the major contribution made by the United States,
Canada and the United Kingdom. On the basis of pledges already given we are expecting
about 7,000 more to be resettled by the end of this year. However without firmer pledges
for next year there is a danger that the rate of resettlement could drop considerably. We
realize the plight of other countries, and particularly of Thailand. But the efforts made and
the humanity shown in this small overcrowded territory also deserve recognition, and in the
only practical way possible―pledges of resettlement. We have 50% more boat refugees
than any other country of first asylum. They are an international problem, not ours, and
they should not be swept under the international rug as forgotten people. We will do
everything we can to ensure that they are not. It is not as if we did not have our own
towering problem of immigration from China.
34. In addition, we have under detention some ethnic Chinese who originally sought
refuge from Vietnam and were resettled in China, but subsequently made their way here.
The Chinese authorities have shown sympathetic understanding of this problem, and these
people are gradually being returned to their places of resettlement.
Immigration from China
35. Immigration from China is a much more serious problem. There are two streams, legal
and illegal. They are composed of rather different sorts of people, and represent very
different problems. The ‘legal’ stream consists of persons to whom the Chinese authorities
have issued permits to leave their places of residence for extended visits to Hong Kong. But
in practice at least 96% remain here permanently. Generally the stream is composed of
complete family groups, often with skills and education and normally with family
connections in Hong Kong. Their absorption would not present a difficult problem were it
not for their numbers. In response to representations the volume has been brought down
from a daily peak of 310 a day in December 1978 to an average of about 150 a day this year.
This still represents an addition of about 55,000 a year to our population. And it is far too
much, and should be greatly reduced.
36. The ‘illegal’ stream is composed of quite different people. 85% are between the age of
15 and 30, most are single and the proportion of male
12 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980
to female is 3:1. The educational level is usually poor and they have little to offer in skills.
There is a noticeable lack of sympathy for them here; and their presence poses potential
problems for law and order though this is impossible to quantify. Illegal movement across
frontiers inevitably operates within the criminal world.
37. The problem has grown fast. In 1977, 1,800 illegal immigrants were arrested and we
believe that about 6,600 evaded arrest and entered. In 1978, it had risen slightly to 8,200
arrests and 28,000 who entered. But in 1979 the figures rose to 90,000 arrested and 102,000
who entered. And this year from January to August the figures are 56,000 arrested and
55,000 who have entered. Moreover when the ‘legal’ stream is added, the extra numbers
Hong Kong has had to absorb from immigration become:―
in 1977 31,000
in 1978 95,000
in 1979 178,000
and this year 91,000 to the end of August.
And it looks as if this year the total figure will be worryingly high and not much short of
last year’s. I will come back to the significance for our society of these figures. The point I
wish to make now is that the illegal stream, which is the major element, would be very
much higher but for the immense exertions of the security forces on both sides of the border.
On our side, night after night, there are deployed at least 190 patrols of the army, 150 road
blocks and ambushes by the Police, small boats of the Royal Marines, a similar unit of the
Marine Police, and in deeper waters 22 police launches, three naval craft, and all are
supported where necessary by helicopters. Control of movement across the land frontier has
been improved by construction of a lit fence for almost its entire length, observed from
watchtowers and accessible from a newly built road. Both by land and sea the most
sophisticated detection devices are used, and co-ordination for all operations whether by
Armed Services, Police or Marine Police is provided from the Colony Police/Military joint
command post. I have no detailed knowledge of the measures on the Chinese side, except
that they are active, and are believed to result in the arrest of three times as many people as
by our own security forces. In fact we reckon that out of every five attempting to penetrate
this Sino/British screen only one succeeds. And yet in the last 12 months 94,000 did
succeed. The implication is that the number of people who attempted to reach Hong Kong
and either succeeded or were arrested must have been something like 450,000 in one year,
and obviously many more must have turned back undetected. So if the guard slipped on
either side of the frontier and adjacent seaboard, we would literally be overwhelmed by this
wave of half a million or more that hangs over us. This is the dimension of the threat.
38. Such surges of movement have occurred from time to time in our recent history, but
none has been so prolonged or proved more difficult for
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980 13
the Chinese authorities or our own security forces to control. Clearly the root cause lies in
the current urge to reach Hong Kong, and the only long-term cure lies in deflating this urge
at its source, that is to say in the communes of Guangdong. Meanwhile unremitting efforts
to intercept and return this traffic to China are essential.
39. I do not want to leave this section without paying a very sincere tribute to our security
forces. The mounting efficiency, determination and technical skill with which they have
attacked this distasteful task is beyond all praise. You will have noted from the figures I
have quoted that their skill has resulted in the evasion ratio being cut down from something
like 3.5:1 in 1977 to about 1:1 this year. The strain on them has been great, and to Armed
Services and Police alike, I would like to record my grateful thanks. In doing so, I should
not fail to mention the valuable contribution made by our own part-time volunteer units, the
Royal Hong Kong Regiment, the Royal Hong Kong Auxiliary Air Force and the Auxiliary
Police.
SOCIAL PROGRAMMES
40. Against the background of our economic situation and our current problem of
immigration I will now review the progress in our major social programmes.
Housing
41. I will start with housing. You will recollect that in the Budget for 1979- 80, after
reassessing the demands upon the economy made by the public sector in general and in
particular of its demands on the construction industry , the annual production target of the
Housing Authority was set at 35,000 flats a year for rental and home ownership combined.
It is possible that the original higher targets in excess of 40,000 were unrealistic and would
not have been achieved in any case at that time, and in the event in 1979-80, because of
slippage, the number of flats completed was a little above 32,000. The overall production
by the public sector when the Housing Society contribution was added, was 33,000. Even
this was more than double the output in the previous year. In the private sector production
was over 28,600 flats. So this produced a total production of over 60,000 flats which is by
far the highest figure for the decade.
42. This year it looks as if the Housing Authority will complete about 35,000 flats of
which nearly 9,000 will be for the Home Ownership Scheme. But once again slippage looks
like preventing last year’s shortfall from being added to this year’s production. The private
sector expects to complete another 30,000 so this will mean an overall increase of about
65,000 new flats this year, thus slightly improving on the high level of production achieved
last year.
43. The housing programme has been plagued by slippage, and in the light of experience it
is apparent that granting authority for a given level of
14 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980
contracts will not produce a similar level of completions because of the intervention of a
host of extraneous and often quite unforeseeable factors. Consequently contracts are now
being let to a level of about 10% above target to ensure that at least 35,000 flats will be
completed each year. This will show results from 1983-84 onwards.
44. The Home Ownership Scheme has proved extremely popular and this reflects the
strong demand for home ownership at a reasonable cost. The Government is looking into
the possibility of expanding this programme. But this will not and must not be at the cost of
rented accommodation which is needed so badly for those who cannot afford the capital
outlay of home purchase and are on the waiting list, and those who lose their homes
through clearance or natural disaster.
45. It is satisfactory that out of the first 10,300 households so far allocated flats in the
Home Ownership Scheme, almost 5,000 are vacating rented accommodation in Housing
Authority estates. So the Scheme is, as intended, fulfilling a double purpose of providing
new homes for those who can afford to buy them and of simultaneously making available
rented accommodation for those who cannot.
46. Honourable Members we have at least achieved a very large annual completion rate of
public housing whose continuity is assured throughout the five-year forecast period.
Moreover this will be accompanied by a private sector production that will maintain the
combined total of about 65,000 flats a year, at least for the next two years, and probably for
several years thereafter though completions by the private sector in the longer term are not
predictable.
47. We have every right to be proud of these figures which are much higher than we have
ever achieved before, and are greatly to the credit of the Housing Department and private
developers alike. Nevertheless we still have to look squarely at where this rate of
completions is getting us, and when it will bring the chronic problem of inadequate housing
nearer a solution. So a new study of this old problem has been undertaken and will shortly
be submitted to the Executive Council and in due course I hope will be published. While I
am not prepared at this stage to commit myself to figures which are still subject to research,
it is nevertheless clear that by the mid-80s there will still be a very large number of people
in shared, overcrowded non self-contained, or otherwise sub-standard accommodation. I do
not contest that the level of output to which we are now committed, that is to say 35,000
flats a year by the Housing Authority for rented and home ownership, may have been all
that the construction industry and the economy as a whole could manage without being
subjected to intolerable inflationary pressures. Nevertheless we must also face the fact that
taken in conjunction with the expected production of the private sector by 1984-85
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980 15
we will still be two or three years from achieving our target. It is therefore abundantly clear
that for many years to come we must strive to improve on the level of flats now being
completed in both public and private sectors and plan our land production accordingly.
48. The position has of course been worsened by immigration. Immigrants are not
immediately eligible for public housing, but the demand on our housing stock that will
eventually be made by the numbers that arrived last year is equal to at least a full year’s
building programme. The longer the influx continues the more difficult will it become ever
to correct the situation. Meanwhile the spreading squatter settlements and overcrowding in
the private sector tell their own tale.
Education
49. After housing, education is one of the principal concerns of our population, and it is
one of our biggest and most complex programmes. The aim of providing our children with
nine years of free, universal and compulsory education has now been realized. So our
present efforts are directed in the main to the implementation of the White Paper on Senior
Secondary and Tertiary Education published in 1978.
50. As a result of immigration we will be marginally short of the 1981 Form IV target of
subsidized places for 60% of the 15-year age group. By our best effort, we will only be
providing for about 58% of this age group, but at 58,700 places next year, this will still be
an increase of 24,700 places over this year. In consequence of the decline of the 15-year old
population and our large school building programme we should exceed the 60% target by
1982 and should reach 68% by 1984.
51. To meet these requirements we have a building programme of 130 schools of which 59
had been completed by this July. As the programme progresses dependence on bought
places in the junior sector will be reduced.
52. To alleviate the effects of delays in the building programme, the Director of Education
has arranged to operate additional Form IV classes in new and developing schools, and to
advance the opening of some schools by the use of borrowed premises. These measures will
cause inconvenience, but they are temporary and will only be needed for one school year in
most cases.
Technical Institutes
53. The original target for the five technical institutes was for a total of slightly over
40,000 full-time, part-time day and part-time evening places. This has now been revised to
43,000 places by 1983-84. A sixth technical institute at Tuen Mun is planned to open in
1985.
54. In accordance with the 1978 White Paper consideration is now being given to the
phased transfer of a total of about 5,000 technician course
16 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980
places from the Polytechnic to the technical institutes over a four-year period commencing
next September, to make room at the Polytechnic for higher level work. Plans are also in
hand to add extra storeys and annexes to the existing technical institutes to help absorb this
transfer.
Post Secondary Colleges
55. The Baptist College and Ling Nam College which accepted the Government’s offer of
financial assistance began their new two-year post- Form VI courses in September. At the
same time, the United Kingdom Council for National Academic Awards has agreed to
assess the appropriate awards for students who complete these courses.
Adult Education
56. Finally, to complete this review of implementation of the 1978 White Paper, a scheme
to subvent projects in adult education of a retrieval nature run by voluntary organizations
was introduced in September on a trial period for one year. Some 3,300 students in 18
separate projects will benefit. Should the scheme prove successful it is intended to extend it
in 1981-82.
Selection and Allocation of Places
57. Honourable Members will be aware of the concern felt by the public about the systems
of selection and allocation. A working party will report on the secondary schools allocation
procedure by the end of this year, and an Advisory Committee is shortly to be set up to
monitor the proposed new Form III assessment and allocation procedures.
English-Speaking Schools
58. All Government English-speaking schools, secondary and primary were disestablished
in September 1979 and they are now administered by the English Schools Foundation. I
should like to record my appreciation of the comprehensive review undertaken by the
Committee chaired by Mr. Q. W. LEE of the application of the principle of parity of subsidy
to the English- speaking schools. This report has been accepted by your Government.
Primary Education
59. The Green Paper on Primary Education and Pre-Primary Services was published in
April. Comments on it, which were generally, but not universally, favourable, are now
being digested and a White Paper will issue during the current session.
60. The publication of this White Paper will complete the series of reviews of the Hong
Kong education system, which started in 1974 with the White Paper on Secondary
Education, continuing in 1978 with one on Senior Secondary and Tertiary Education. The
change achieved both on the ground up to Junior Secondary Form III already, and in
planned expansion of senior education up to the mid-80s, is spectacular, and is radically
changing the
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980 17
level of education in Hong Kong. But there is still much room for modification , adjustment
and improvement in quality. Nevertheless we now have a well-defined background against
which any further change can be considered. This should make it timely to conduct in 1981
the promised overall review of the entire system to examine the coherence and
effectiveness of the education service and the balance and priorities between different
disciplines.
Universities
61. The enrolment of the two universities for the academic year now starting is expected to
be marginally higher than the target of 10,330 set in 1978 White Paper. The 3% annual
growth rate in student numbers set in the White Paper would have produced a target of
11,300 students. For a variety of reasons, not least of which is the increased cost of
university education for our students overseas, the Government has asked the U.P.G.C. to
consider the feasibility of increasing the annual growth rate immediately to 4%. This is an
interim measure. But we are conscious that circumstances are changing, and also have
noted the concern of the Committee on Diversification that facilities for tertiary and
technical education may not prove adequate. An official review is therefore being
undertaken as a matter of urgency.
Polytechnic
62. The Polytechnic continues on its successful way and no problems are foreseen in
reaching the target of 12,000 full-time equivalent students by 1983-84. Within this total the
Polytechnic hopes to start offering some courses at degree level, and to increase the number
of students on higher level work. Detailed proposals, as for the universities, are about to be
made by the U.P.G.C.
Social Welfare
63. In social welfare the past year has been devoted largely to detailed planning and
implementation of the policies laid down in the White Paper published in April last year,
which are still in their early stages of development . Provision for social welfare in 1980-81
increased by 19% over the previous year, but larger increases are expected over the next
few years as White Paper projects, now being planned, are brought into operation.
64. The disability allowance was extended to the profoundly deaf and the disability
supplement was introduced at the same time for partially disabled people receiving public
assistance. Last month the rates of public assistance and special needs allowance were
raised by 22% to maintain their purchasing power. The Director is now examining whether
public assistance allowances adequately reflect changes in the standard of living for the
community as a whole and whether the rent allowance is realistic.
65. Programmes for the elderly have been delayed for lack of suitable sites for institutions,
but it is hoped that at least 5,000 new places in
18 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980
institutions for the elderly will be provided over the next four years whether in public
housing estates or separately built homes; and I trust this modest target will be met. The
situation should be eased by the introduction of a quota for elderly people who will be
given quicker access to public housing.
66. For the rest I will leave the Director to answer honourable Members’ question or
comments on the rapidly developing programmes which are now in his charge. As in so
many other fields the adequacy of the provision in them could look radically different if the
normal growth of population continues to be swollen by massive immigration.
Rehabilitation
67. Satisfactory progress in implementing the 1977 Rehabilitation White Paper continued.
The first essential is to spot handicaps at an early age. Considerable progress has been made
with establishing various types of screening and vetting to detect and identify handicaps
amongst children and 90% of primary schools are now so covered. The next major step will
be to form the central registry of the handicapped recommended in the White Paper, and I
very much hope that this will be done in the coming year―which incidentally will be the
International Year of the Disabled Person.
68. Some progress has also been made with steps to integrate the handicapped into the
community. A section has been established in the Education Department to deal with
vocational training for the handicapped, and the Labour Department has set up a Selective
Placement Service to help the disabled find employment in commerce and industry. At the
same time Civil Service Regulations should now make it easier to employ more disabled
persons in the civil service.
69. There are 26,000 places for special education this year, and it is hoped there will be
50,000 by 1985-86, though this still represents a substantial shortfall below the 73,000 who
it is calculated may need such places by then. And this takes no account of immigration
influx. But the places cannot be provided until teachers with the necessary training are
available.
70. Provision of day and residential facilities for the mentally handicapped will amount to
1,740 places next year and 4,700 in 1986, against a calculated demand of 7,400 and 8,200
respectively.
71. As these figures show, we have a long way to go, though against the history of the
urgent pressures under which Hong Kong has evolved it is not surprising that these services
have come late in the queue. However the work that is being done is of a high quality and
our resources now make possible a co-ordinated advance across the whole field.
Para-Medical Services
72. The development of medical services and also of rehabilitation services whether
directed by the Medical, Education, or Social Welfare Departments,
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980 19
is very dependent on provision of trained supporting personnel of which we are extremely
short. A determined effort has been made to establish courses to produce the people
required, whether at the Polytechnic, universities or directly by the Education, Medical and
Social Welfare Departments. I was glad to have a very favourable report from the
University Polytechnic Grants Committee on the progress made. But the field is wide and
in many disciplines the build-up of the cadres required is likely to progress over at least the
decade rather than the next few years. This is something that is going to need careful
planning by the departments concerned and a close monitoring by the Central Co-ordinating
Committee on Rehabilitation and the Medical Development Advisory Committee.
73. With this long course of expansion ahead the Supplementary Medical Professions
Ordinance enacted last session was a particularly timely piece of legislation to preserve
standards in the para-medical professions.
Medical and Health Services
74. This year has been a year of intense activity and significant progress in the medical
and health field.
75. The South Kwai Chung Hospital has been completed, providing 1,300 beds for the
treatment of the mentally ill and thus relieving pressure at the Castle Peak Hospital. The
Schools Dental Care Service was initiated last month, when the first school dental clinic
was opened. The new School for Dentists has been established in the Hong Kong
University, the accompanying Prince Philip Dental Hospital is being commissioned (and I
believe that it is a show piece by any standard), and in a little over four years from now,
Hong Kong will see its first batch of locally trained dentists. Finally arrangements for the
new medical school at the Chinese University are progressing well, and the new 1,400-bed
hospital at Sha Tin which will complement the school, should be completed by September
1982. I am delighted that His Royal Highness has agreed that it should be called the Prince
of Wales’ Hospital.
76. These items, taken together, in themselves represent an extraordinary effort. They are
however only the peaks in a programme too wide to cover in this address. But I would like
to mention the community nursing service. The 150 nurses now in this service will be
doubled within the next two years to improve health care as well as to free hospital beds.
This service has proved both successful and popular.
77. Rapid expansion in the Medical and Health Department, together with regionalization
have thrown up management problems, and a review has been undertaken of its
organization. It is hoped that during the next year it will be possible to strengthen the
management structure and improve deployment of its resources.
20 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980
78. As honourable Members know, in addition to the 1,400-bed hospital under
construction at Sha Tin, others of similar size are planned for completion to the end of this
decade at Tuen Mun and East Kowloon. With these, numerous clinics, and other
improvements planned for the medical services, by 1989 we would have reached the target
of the Medical Development Advisory Committee of 5.7 beds per 1,000 population, and in
clinics seven consulting rooms per 100,000 population, instead of 4.4 and five respectively
as at present. The improvement in service would have been dramatic. This assumed a
normal population growth rate of about 1.5%. But if current immigration levels are not
reduced we can abandon any hope of achieving such improvements. We would make
virtually no advance on present levels, and in crude terms the shortfall would be four major
hospitals, ten standard clinics, 520 doctors and 3,200 nurses. This is yet another example of
the size of threat that continued immigration at present levels represents to standards the
population has deserved and had every right to expect, and the progressive strain it is
placing on public services.
79. Nor is it irrelevant to our services dealing with law, order and security, to which I now
turn.
LAW, ORDER AND SECURITY
Narcotics
80. Our campaign against the twin problems of drug trafficking and drug addiction has
continued to be successful. Despite a recent decrease the price of heroin is still three times
that of June last year thanks to the success of law enforcement agencies in intercepting
supplies. The Government and voluntary agencies are doing everything they can to exploit
this situation to free addicts from their addiction. An average of 7,000 persons are now
attending the 22 methadone clinics every day, while another 7,000 are undergoing other
forms of voluntary or compulsory treatment, rehabilitation and aftercare. Compared with an
estimated addict population of about 40,000 this figure of 14,000 under care represents
quite good coverage.
81. Young people’s addiction has continued to decrease. Between 1973 and 1979, the
number of addicts under 21 years of age admitted to Prisons Department drug addiction
treatment centres, and to the voluntary centre at Shek Kwu Chau, declined by 66% and 72%
respectively, so that at present mended three new pieces of legislation which I hope will be
submitted this and 2% of those being treated at Shek Kwu Chau.
82. These are significant achievements which reflect growing support and assistance from
the public. But the battle is a continuing one and, to add power to our efforts, the Action
Committee Against Narcotics has recommended three new pieces of legislation which I
hope will be submitted this session to provide for the confidentiality of records of drug
addicts; to
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980 21
impose stringent penalities on ships repeatedly found to be carrying dangerous drugs into
Hong Kong; and to strip convicted drug traffickers of their profits.
The Royal Hong Kong Police Force
Expansion and Recruitment
83. After a long period of rapid expansion, last year the Police Force entered a phase of
consolidation and this has continued at an annual expansion figure of 5%.
84. The Force’s own management capacity has been reinforced, and a new senior civil
administrator, equivalent to a Deputy Commissioner in rank, has been appointed with the
responsibility of co-ordinating all forward planning and ensuring that the resources
necessary for the implementation of plans are forthcoming.
85. Last year saw a concentration on improvements to welfare and recreational facilities
which will continue. This includes improvements to police canteens, and to sports and
recreation centres, the latter greatly assisted by private donations, and a pilot scheme to
provide fitness rooms in police stations. Some 20 holiday homes in Macau and New
Territories, of which 16 are for junior officers, are now available. The scheme whereby 400
public housing units a year are allocated to junior officers is working well and when taken
in conjunction with plans for construction of more police married quarters should alleviate
the Force’s serious housing problem.
86. In 1977-78 more than 2,200 junior Police officers were recruited. But last year,
because of the policy of consolidation that I have referred to and because of a reduced
wastage rate, it was found necessary to recruit only 1,600. This has permitted the Force to
be more selective and require that candidates have five years secondary education. This in
turn will permit in future a larger number of Inspectorate Officers to be promoted from the
ranks. 174 such promotions were made during the last three years compared with 51 in the
preceding three years. At the same time efforts have been made to obtain Inspectorate
candidates at matriculation and degree level, and with some success. But rapid expansion
has left the Force exceptionally young, and lack of the experienced officers essential for
effective management continues to be a problem; and it has been aggravated by an
unacceptably high exodus of mainly expatriate Inspectors after their first tour. A working
party to advise on ways of improving Inspectorate working conditions has been set up; in
the short term and as a stopgap measure only, the Police are recruiting from overseas on
limited contracts a number of Senior Inspectors with specialist qualifications in the field of
commercial crime, training, and possibly seamanship.
Crime
87. Over the years the Police have been successful in reducing robberies― the crime
which causes such general fear in the population. Last summer
22 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980
there was a sharp increase to a daily rate of about 30. This was an unwelcome side effect of
success in intercepting drugs, forced up their price, and thus produced a crop of quick cash
crime, such as thefts from vehicles, but also mugging. Counter measures were taken which
were successful in containing and fighting back this upsurge. And robberies have now been
reduced to about 26 a day, but obviously must be reduced further before there is any room
for complacency. But as a measure of Police success and effort over the years this figure of
26 compares with a daily rate of 40 in 1974. There is also a disturbing tendency towards
more violence and more frequent use of fire-arms. It is by concentrating on crime
prevention that the Police hope to reduce further the number of robberies. The triple
alliance of Government/ Police/Public is essential for success. The Police will develop this
alliance through its Community Relations Officers, its Neighbourhood Policing Units and
by more extensive deployment of Crime Prevention Officers to advise the public how to
protect themselves. Police preventive methods have been particularly successful in reducing
bank and goldsmith robberies which were so prevalent in late 1979 and early this year.
88. Public co-operation through mutual aid committees and perhaps through an overall
improvement in civic mindedness has resulted in an increased number of criminals being
arrested by the public. The proportion was 8% in 1978, 10% in 1979 and 12% this year.
And this is a remarkable and highly satisfactory trend, and is an indication of the steadily
improving working relationship between Police and public.
89. I am sorry to say there has been a significant increase in the number of crimes
committed by juveniles between seven and 15 years of age. Before the Fight Crime
Campaign it was normal for 10% of crimes to be committed by juveniles. This percentage
dropped to 7% by 1975. This remained at about this same figure until 1979 when it rose
suddenly to 11% and it looks like rising to 16% this year. This reversal in a trend in which
we were having such obvious success is both disturbing and bewildering. Not least because
it runs contrary to the trend in juvenile drug addiction. I have asked the Fight Crime
Committee to undertake a thorough study of both the statistics and causes of this upsurge.
90. It is however inevitable that the additional burden placed on the Police in connection
with illegal immigration has to some extent detracted from the strength available for anticrime duties. Though there is little statistical connection between illegal immigration and
crime, it is generally believed in the Force that a connection exists. I think the Force has
done extraordinarily well under the double burden.
Marine Police
91. In view of the increased commitments of the Marine Police in com-batting illegal
immigration and policing the waters of Hong Kong the Government has agreed in principle
to a ten-year expansion programme to
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980 23
expand the fleet by 24 vessels. Additionally over the same period it is intended to replace
34 existing vessels. The Marine Police will also continue to deploy fast small boats in antiillegal immigration operations.
Customs and Excise Service
92. A word about the Customs and Excise Service. Although it is the activities of the
Customs and Excise Service in the field of anti-narcotics work which usually make the
headlines, we hear comparatively little about the other activities of their 1,500 members and
their civilian staff. But they do collect over 5% of the total revenue and their success in the
suppression of copyright offences in recent years has been held up as a model for other
countries, and has relieved Hong Kong of some vociferous international criticism.
93. This Service has grown by 20 per cent in the last three years, reflecting the growth of
travel by air, land and sea, the expansion of overseas trade, the development of the Kwai
Chung container port and, more recently, the demands of the increase in traffic of all kinds
between Hong Kong and China.
94. The requirements of law enforcement and the protection of our international trading
reputation will place a growing responsibility on the Customs and Excise Service and it is
being expanded and modernized to meet it.
Prisons Department
95. Although the Prisons Department has not been required to divert so much of its
resources this year to Vietnamese boat refugees, the number of illegal immigrants being
held in the Department’s custody has increased sharply. These are the ones I have already
referred to who were originally from Vietnam but subsequently settled in China. At the
same time, the regular prisoner population has increased to 6,900 compared with just over
6,000 twelve months ago.
96. Increased numbers of regular prisoners, particularly of long-term and high security
prisoners, require additional accommodation. So a second institution for women at Tai Tam
Gap has been opened, and funds have been provided for a new maximum security prison at
Shek Pik on Lantau.
97. The detention centre programme for young offenders of the 14-20 age group has
continued to prove most effective and a second centre has opened on Hei Ling Chau. Of
those who have passed through the programme, 95% have not been reconvicted of any
offence in the year following release, and nearly 80% have not been reconvicted during the
three years following release. In August 1977 the programme was extended in a modified
form to young adults between 20 and 24 and the first results have been equally
encouraging.
24 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980
Fire and Ambulance Services
98. A mention of the Fire and Ambulance Services in this annual address is overdue. In
Hong Kong’s crowded environment and long dry winter fire poses a constant threat, and
there are the particular hazards of both high rise development and squatter settlements. The
Fire and Ambulance Services have met these challenges exceptionally well.
99. As Hong Kong has expanded so have the demands on these services. Seven years ago
they had to respond to an average of 320 emergency calls a day. Today the figure is 650.
Moreover in spite of congested streets, appliances and ambulances in the urban areas are
almost always on the scene within six minutes of an alarm being received. For this short
response time to be possible the Service has been expanded over the last seven years from
just under 3,500 to over 5,000 men of all ranks with a corresponding increase in fire
stations and ambulance depots as well as fire appliances and ambulances. Plans provide for
the continued expansion of the Service and its equipment at an average rate of 15% per year
over the next five years.
100. Fires are better prevented than cured. Since the early 1970s the Fire Services
Department has required new buildings over a certain height to be provided with automatic
fire detection and suppression systems. The benefits of these requirements are now
becoming apparent. It is hoped that with the wider application of modern systems and as
property is redeveloped, the risk of devastating fires in multi-storey buildings will continue
to decrease. But the co-operation of property owners and occupiers is essential.
I.C.A.C.
101. The war against corruption continues, and the staff of the I.C.A.C. have continued to
acquit themselves with vigour and dedication.
102. Up to 31 August this year, the Commission has received about 1,080 complaints of
corruption compared with about 1,100 for the same period last year. Despite the fact that
fewer of this year’s complaints provided grounds for investigation, 220 people have been
taken to court compared with 180 during the same period last year. Certainly there has been
no relaxation in the effects of the Operations Department to bring offenders to justice.
103. The number of allegations about the Police has dropped to less than 30% of all
complaints of corruption instead of over 40% which has been the average for some years.
Complaints of corruption in the private sector now account for over 30% of the total.
104. The Corruption Prevention Department of the Commission has continued to work
closely with Government departments and some public bodies to change procedures which
invite corruption. It has also increased its capacity to train departments to undertake their
own preventive measures.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980 25
105. In response to persistent efforts of the Community Relations Department, an
increasing number of individuals are making clear their own stand against corruption. And
attitudes and behaviour which were once regarded as unchangeable are giving way to new
values. But let us have no illusions; there is still too much corruption and there are too
many people who are still prepared to tolerate its existence. Great as has been the
improvement, we still have a long way to go before we can be satisfied that there will be no
relapse. So the Commission must maintain unrelenting pressure, and in this it may count on
the determined support of the Government.
106. In his leadership of the I.C.A.C. the retiring Commissioner, Sir Donald
LUDDINGTON, has added yet another and very successful chapter to his long record of wise
and able public service.
The Garrison
107. I conclude this section on law, order and security with a word about the Garrison. It
has been under exceptional strain in intercepting illegal immigrants. Reinforcement, begun
in mid-1979, has continued, and its principal elements consist of a British battalion, a Royal
Marine Raiding Squadron, three additional helicopters, two hovercraft, a fast patrol boat
and supporting staff.
108. From what I have already said about illegal immigration it is clear that we shall have
to maintain our present high level of operations indefinitely. Moreover, it has become
apparent that the reduction of the Garrison in 1976 from 6 to 4 major units was probably
excessive.
109. Discussions with the Ministry of Defence were therefore begun in March with a
view to adding a fifth battalion to the permanent strength of the Garrison provided we and
H.M.G. could afford the additional cost. This in turn led to a recalculation by the Ministry
of Defence and our own Security and Finance Branches of what the cost of the Garrison
really was, with a view to agreeing a new Defence Costs Agreement. From the series of
preliminary discussions and calculations that have taken place it is clear that we have been
somewhat under-charged in the past and that the Garrison is going to cost considerably
more in future. Exactly how much more will emerge from the substantive negotiations that
will start in a few days. Assuming these negotiations are successful, and it is agreed a new
battalion should be added, it will become operational in early 1982. In the meantime
reinforcement will continue at a level necessary to guard our land and sea borders.
LABOUR
Legislation
110. Turning now to labour legislation the last session saw further progress. The
Employment Ordinance was amended to require the posting up of
3
1
3
2
26 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980
relevant extracts of labour legislation by employers, and bring under control those
employment agencies dealing solely with the recruitment of domestic servants. The
Workmen’s Compensation Ordinance, now retitled the Employees’ Compensation
Ordinance, was extended in scope to cover all employees and to provide substantially
increased levels of compensation, employers’ liability for the costs of repair and renewal of
prostheses and surgical appliances, and a new schedule for assessing loss of earning
capacity. Most of the new benefits will come into effect on 1 November this year.
111. The recently enacted Pneumoconiosis (Compensation) Ordinance establishes a
scheme of compensation for affected persons and for dependants of those who die from the
disease. This will come into operation on 1 January next year. In the meantime ex gratia
payments are being made by the Government to those persons who have been diagnosed as
suffering from the disease before the commencement of the Ordinance.
112. The Factories and Industrial Undertakings Ordinance has been amended to allow
regulations made under it to provide for fines up to $50,000. Amending regulations
covering the increased penalties will be made by the Commissioner for Labour and put to
this Council for approval during this session.
113. Drafting instructions further to amend the Employees’ Compensation Ordinance
during this session are being prepared; these include provisions for compulsory insurance,
the establishment of more effective machinery for assessing compensation, and measures to
expedite settlement of compensation claims.
114. The report of the inter-departmental working group on maternity benefits was
circulated early this year to trade unions, major employers’ associations and other
interested parties. Most of the recommendations were well received and amending
legislation will be introduced during this session.
115. Improvements on the application of eight International Labour Conventions were
made last year. At present 43 Conventions are applied either in full or with modification.
Industrial Safety and Industrial Training
116. The state of industrial safety in Hong Kong is not something we are proud of. But
there are welcome signs that employers and workers are becoming more conscious of the
need for industrial safety. A number of employers’ associations have been co-operating
more closely with the Government about preventive measures. And some workers’
organizations have also been involved in promoting industrial safety. I hope this trend will
continue and help to reduce the present unacceptably high number of industrial accidents.
For its part the Government will continue to expand the Factory Inspectorate to enforce
safety legislation and undertake safety education.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980 27
117. The Apprenticeship Ordinance has brought about significant improvements in the
training of technical manpower. Since the enactment of the Ordinance in 1976, I have
specified 37 trades as designated trades under the Ordinance and, as a result, some 15,000
apprenticeship contracts have been registered.
118. On the wider issue of industrial training and related technical education, the
Executive Council has advised acceptance of most of the relevant recommendations on this
subject by the Advisory Committee on Diversification. One of the most difficult questions
was the method of financing additional training schemes. The Training Council has
advocated a general levy on exports or on imports and exports, the Advisory Committee on
Diversification recommended that this should be a charge on general revenue.
119. The Governor in Council has now agreed that the Government should accept this
commitment as a charge on general revenue, but with two provisos. Firstly that the
Government subvention should be in the form of a block grant to the Training Council or
Training Authority, which would assume a role similar to that of the University and
Polytechnic Grants Committee, so as to achieve maximum flexibility. Furthermore,
commitments would be accepted by the Government to permit forward planning. Secondly,
the existing Construction Industry and Clothing Industry Training Schemes should remain
intact with their levies if that is their wish. Legislation will be introduced this session.
THE PUBLIC SERVICE
120. Your Government has continued to put much effort into the administration. welfare
and training of the public service. The Standing Commission on Civil Service Salaries and
Conditions of Service has continued its arduous and very valuable work, first under the
chairmanship of Sir Y. K. KAN, and now under Sir S. Y. CHUNG. It has completed its first
major task of reviewing the pay and structure of some 130,000 staff in more than 600
grades. Its recommendations were accepted and the great majority have been implemented.
Since the Commission is a permanent and not a temporary body, it is able to review its own
recommendations, and in some cases it has already done so. Since clearly it would not be
humanly possible to get so many interrelated recommendations absolutely right first time,
and particularly when new facts are brought to its attention, this capacity to review its own
decisions is likely to prove one of the great strengths of this new organization and one
which should allow the staff side to have confidence in it.
121. The Commission’s latest report, on improving consultative arrangements in the civil
service will be published shortly, and is likely to have great long-term effect. It offers the
opportunity to improve both the formal consultative machinery and the informal dialogue
between staff and management.
28 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980
122. The Commission has identified a number of other issues for its next review.
Probably the most important will be its examination of the present system of making
service-wide pay adjustments.
123. Last year I mentioned that we had completed a review of the arrangements for
housing of civil servants and that the service was being consulted on the Government’s
proposals for a home purchase scheme. The consultation is now complete, and proposals
will shortly be put to the Executive Council. If accepted, it is likely that the scheme may
have to be implemented in phases because of its far-reaching financial and economic
implications, but I sincerely hope that we shall be able to make a start in the next financial
year.
124. I end this section with a very sincere word of thanks and congratulations to the
public service. The ever-expanding size and complexity of the new Hong Kong that we are
building places ever-increasing burdens on the public service and particularly on its more
experienced members. I am profoundly grateful to the service for the enthusiasm and
dedication with which this challenge has been met.
125. Before speaking about the response to the Green Paper on District Administration, I
will deal briefly with a group of what might be described as environmental issues: land
production, pollution, transport and communications, and the cleanliness of Hong Kong.
Land Production
126. Production of land is vital to our economic expansion. It is a very scarce commodity
in Hong Kong and its high cost does us no good, to some extent offsetting the many
attractions which Hong Kong otherwise offers investors. It is for this reason that I attach
such importance to the work of the Special Committee on Land Production, now under the
chairmanship of Miss DUNN. I should add that a complete official review of our system of
land planning administration and production is being undertaken and the association of
Unofficials with it.
127. Last year I said that we had succeeded in raising production to a considerably higher
level than before, but that the 120 net hectares that should be available for sale in the twoyear period up to 31 March 1982 was probably inadequate. I am glad to say that thanks to
the exertions of the land authorities, this figure has now been raised by 25% to 150 hectares,
and that even this may well be exceeded. With regard to land sales in the following year a
target has been set by the Committee of 50 hectares net for private residential and 30
hectares net for light industrial use or 80 hectares in all. This does not include 49 hectares
additionally being produced for the Industrial Estates Corporation in this period. In addition
the target of land production for public housing between now and March 1983 is 190
hectares gross.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980 29
Pollution
128. Much work has been done on the essential framework of legislation necessary to
contain and gradually reduce the problems of pollution. The Water Pollution Bill and Waste
Disposal Bill were both enacted in the past session, and the regulations necessary before
action can materialize are being drafted and will be submitted to the Executive Council
during the year. An Air Pollution Control Bill will be introduced this session. During the
last session the Summary Offences Ordinance was amended to provide powers to control
construction noise. Work is proceeding on the preparation of a Noise Abatement Bill but it
is not certain whether it will be ready this session.
Transport and Communications
129. Despite the relief to the road system resulting from the opening of the Modified
Initial System of the Mass Transit Railway, Hong Kong is experiencing growing traffic
congestion. Vehicle registrations are now 40% above their level three years ago and private
car registrations are 50% above that level.
130. Substantial progress has been made in the road programme. The Ap Lei Chau
Bridge, Glenealy Flyover and the Wu Hu interchange at Hung Hom have been completed.
The major projects which will be completed in the coming year include the Kwai Chung
section of the Tsuen Wan By-pass, the Aberdeen Tunnel, the East Kowloon Corridor and
flyovers at Canal Road, Stubbs Road and the junction of Pok Fu Lam Road and Hill Road.
Starts are being made on the Island Eastern Corridor between Causeway Bay and North
Point, on the Tai Kok Tsui section of the West Kowloon Corridor, on the coastal highway
from Sha Tin to Tai Po, and on completion of the Tuen Mun Highway. Consultants will
finalize their report on the expansion of cross harbour links within the next few months.
Consultants are proceeding with the design of a fixed crossing to Lantau and will submit
their report by June 1982. A study of a major new road between Sha Tin and Tsuen Wan
will be commissioned shortly.
131. It will be sometime before these projects afford significant relief to Hong Kong’s
inadequate road systems, either in the Urban area or in the developing North East and North
West. The rephasing of such projects from time to time in response to economic necessity
has undoubtedly been prudent, but equally undoubtedly there is a price to pay in terms of
convenience, time wasted, and perhaps most important of all if it is allowed to go too far,
the attractions of Hong Kong to some industrial investors. Meanwhile more economic use
will have to be made of the existing road system, and if unavoidable the growth of vehicles
in use will have to be curbed. It is the unenviable task of the Transport Advisory Committee
to wrestle with these complicated, intractable and most controversial problems and advise
the Government on practical solutions. I am sure we all wish the new Unofficial Chairman.
Mr. Lo, every success (laughter).
30 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980
132. Although traffic accidents and casualty figures have declined marginally, and much
good work in this field has been done, none of us accept the position to be satisfactory. A
Road Safety Division is being formed to undertake more scientific identification of the
cause of accidents and to take counter-measures.
133. The Mass Transit Railway is having a major effect on transport patterns. A decision
will be taken shortly on whether it should be extended on Hong Kong Island. In any event
the effect of the M.T.R. will continue to be carefully monitored to ensure that all forms of
public transport are integrated into an efficient network.
134. In February this year agreements were signed between the Government and the
major bus companies, including programmes to improve their standards of service. To give
you an example of the scale of these programmes they include the acquisition of altogether
420 new double-decker buses this year and 640 next, as well as improved maintenance
facilities.
135. Ferries are a very important part of the public transport network, and the
Government intends to introduce a Ferry Service Ordinance later this year under which new
franchises with the major ferry companies will be designed to ensure the future efficiency
and viability of ferry operations.
136. The $2,000 million programme to modernize and electrify the Railway from Hung
Hom to Lo Wu is now well under way. The planning stage is largely completed and work
will be seen increasingly on the ground as more contracts are let on the route of the entire
railway, which should be completed by December 1982. When the interchange with the
M.T.R. at Kowloon Tong is completed in April 1982, the two systems should greatly
improve the convenience of our public transport.
Cleanliness in Hong Kong
137. Honourable Members, the Keep Hong Kong Clean Campaign, which was first
launched in 1972 was a success, and from a dirty city produced a clean one with
astonishing speed and to everyone’s gratification. Hong Kong is still cleaner, neater and
much greener than it was before the Campaign, but we all know the standard has fallen in
the Urban areas and is unsatisfactory in the New Territories. The ubiquity of construction
with its accompanying mess and litter is partly to blame; so also is the sheer volume of the
problem of refuse collection―there has been a 46% increase since 1972. But clearly the cooperation and interest of the public has slipped, and I suspect that on the Governmental side
too low a priority and too little encouragement has been given to the cleansing services.
However that may be, unless we do something about it Hong Kong will slip back into the
dirty, uncared-for appearance of a decade ago, and no one wants that, either for ourselves or
our international reputation. The Government and the Urban Council therefore intend to
embark on a new Keep Hong Kong Clean
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980 31
Campaign in both the Urban Area and the New Territories to begin in October 1981.
Clearly parallel action will be necessary in the country parks.
138. In this Campaign we have no intention of substituting publicity gimmicks for action,
fun though gimmicks are. But we do need to be sure that we have the men, machines and
collection points to do the job better; so an urgent review of resources has been undertaken.
For instance it looks as if it will be necessary to spend about $50 million on new equipment
in the New Territories. We also need to consider what measures could reasonably be taken
to enforce the anti-litter laws more effectively. When we are sure that the Governmental
side of the operation is in better shape, measures will be taken to enlist the support and cooperation of the public. Provided the Government and the Urban Council play their part, I
have no doubt the public will play theirs.
DISTRICT ADMINISTRATION
139. And, now I come to the Green Paper on District Administration. Its theme is
provision of a district focus for administration, consultation and participation. The main
proposals are well known to honourable Members and I will not repeat them here.
140. They have provoked thoughtful comment and this has been carefully recorded and
studied. It will of course not be complete until honourable Members’ own comments have
been made later in the debate, after which a White Paper will be drafted. I cannot anticipate
what the contents or recommendations of that White Paper will be, but from reading the
comments on the Green Paper there does appear to be universal agreement on the need for
more emphasis on district administration, consultation and participation, so I am
encouraged that we are heading in the right direction. Discussion and criticism have
focussed on whether the powers of the District Boards will be sufficient to command
interest, and on the proportion of elected to appointed members and whether there should
be direct election to District Boards in the Urban areas as well as the New Territories. I note
that while there is much support for the principle of adding an elected element, there is also
support for the retention of appointed membership as well. There appears to be a very large
measure of support for elections on a constituency rather than a territory-wide basis, and
indeed it does not seem possible to achieve the local focus aimed at by any other means.
Some advocate retaining the ten City District Offices rather than amalgamating two
districts on each side of the harbour. 21 has generally been supported as the right age for
voting rights though some have argued for both higher and lower ages, and some also for
educational qualifications. But I note a wide band of opinion which considers three years’
residence too little in the present circumstances of Hong Kong. Some have argued that there
should be more stringent qualifications for candidates than voters. Honourable Members
will also have noted counter proposals for a two-tier electoral system in the Urban Area
which would retain the existing territory-wide
32 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980
Urban Council elections by which sitting members have been elected but would be
augmented by separate elections for District Boards with the candidates with the most votes
having a seat on the Urban Council.
141. All these views are now being carefully considered and we hope to be able to
publish the White Paper by the end of this year. Subject to the views of honourable
Members, appropriate legislation might then be introduced into this Council early in 1981
to pave the way for elections under a new system perhaps in the spring of 1982. To make
this possible a substantial deployment of Government manpower would be necessary, and a
tentative programme has been worked out progressively to set up District Management
Committees and District Boards in all districts (though until elections are held Boards
would consist of appointed members only). The first step would be to set up a District
Management Committee in Wong Tai Sin and a District Board in Kwun Tong where there
is already a Management Committee. Similar steps would follow we hope at about three
monthly intervals in other Urban districts until all are covered.
142. There are two points on which I would like to reassure honourable Members:
First the membership of Management Committees must be of adequate calibre and the
powers and authority of their members in the departments they represent must be
clearly defined. In no district will we proceed to the setting up of a District Board until
an adequate Management Committee is in place to work with it. No one will wish to
serve on a Board that cannot achieve results because of the absence of adequate
official support.
Secondly, the Boards must have funds that they can spend on their own initiative for
defined purposes. This applies particularly in the New Territories where Urban
Council funds are not available but also to a lesser extent in the Urban districts too,
and I am sure that the latter could be achieved without infringing the Urban Council’s
prerogatives. While the real power of the Boards will be through the influence they
exert in partnership with officials, I do not think that the Boards will attract interest
unless, in addition, they have some financial resources of their own.
143. Hong Kong is now too large, too complex, and geographically too spread out for the
old system of centralized Government to continue to be the complete answer; it must be
supplemented with more strength at District level. Similarly though there are good
arrangements that work well for unofficial advice and participation at central Government
level, they are not matched in the most effective way at District level and for this there is
now an obvious and growing need. The Green Paper was not the first word on this subject,
and it is certainly not intended to be the last. But I hope that when modified in the light of
public comment, it will enable
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980 33
us to take a significant and practical step towards closing this gap between public and
Government at District level.
SINO-BRITISH RELATIONS AND HONG KONG
144. Sino-British relations are now settled into a pattern of friendly co-operation. This is
true also of the relationship as it affects Hong Kong and I think there is a growing
understanding of the positive part that Hong Kong can play in this relationship and indeed
in other respects.
145. Our dealings with the many officials of the Chinese People’s Republic in Hong
Kong continue to be on a basis which is both positive and satisfactory. The extent to which
our businessmen are engaging in compensation deals and joint ventures in China has
considerably expanded. It was with this development in mind that I asked Sir Yuet Keung
KAN to lead a group to Guangdong to get a clearer picture of how Hong Kong and United
Kingdom interests could contribute to Guangdong’s development plans. Guangdong’s
Director of Foreign Trade will be coming here on a return visit later this month. I believe
this closer co-operation on economic matters will be welcomed both in Hong Kong and
Guangdong.
146. With improved communications, I hope that Hong Kong can play an increasing part
in the growing tourist industry of China.
147. As the new economic policies of China become clearer and firmer, so business
interest in China will expand. Inevitably this will increase interest in the role which Hong
Kong can play in this process. I have no doubt that on the one hand this will mean that
some enterprises now in Hong Kong will take advantage of the lower land and labour costs
in Guangdong; on the other hand, that firms and industries will open up in Hong Kong
which otherwise would not have done so.
148. There is nothing in this rapidly evolving situation which we have to fear. But
naturally it involves new problems as well as new benefits. It is therefore important that we
should keep in close touch with the Provincial Government of Guangdong and find ways by
which any new problems can be solved by mutual co-operation. And this we are doing.
RELATIONS WITH THE U.K.
149. With the United Kingdom our relations―if that is the right word―have been
marked by deepening understanding on both sides. The quick response to our appeal for
reinforcements was a case in point; so too was the brisk response of the Secretary for Trade
to the exclusion of Cathay Pacific from the cabotage route. Of course in so close a
relationship problems are bound to arise, but the degree of Ministerial interest in and firsthand knowledge of Hong Kong has been a great help. So too has the work of the All-Party
Parliamentary Group under the chairmanship of Sir Paul BRYAN. I also believe our
Commission in London has done and is doing a first class job.
34 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL―1 October 1980
150. The economic basis of the relationship remains satisfactory, and this is obviously of
great importance. With United Kingdom exports to Hong Kong this year looking as if they
would top (500 million, and taking into account invisible earnings and other indirect
advantages to the Unit Kingdom, I believe the mutual advantage of the relationship to be on
a sound basis.
CONCLUSIONS
151. Honourable Members, the Report I have made to you is a long one. Even so, for the
sake of brevity, I have not mentioned some fields of particular interests such as the arts,
sporting facilities and services and country parks. But all are making good progress along
lines laid down, and there is no need for met to go into detail. But the report is on the whole
an encouraging one, although it has some darker features. There is war in the Gulf, and
naturally we are worried at the implications. There is the obvious worry of immigration,
which is a problem that can only be solved in close collaboration with our neighbours in
Guangdong. Thirdly I would like to make a point which is less obvious but which deserves
careful thought. While I see the situation developing in China and in the South West Pacific
region to be highly favourable to Hong Kong, and to hold a prospect of bright opportunities,
I am concerned that we should have the facilities―that is to say the land for new industry,
the roads, the housing―that will ensure that the new opportunities can be grasped by Hong
Kong. Curbs on Government construction have been necessary for the economy in the short
term, and have been prudent. But we must show prudence also in ensuring that we are not at
a disadvantage in the economic prospects further ahead. Enormous as has been the
expansion of our capital works programme over the last decade and greatly to the credit of
our engineers, architects and planners as it has been, we must constantly consider whether
the speed of production is adequate for the needs of the decade to come. It is the
infrastructure of our economic progress.
152. But as I say, generally speaking the picture is an encouraging one, with a
surprisingly buoyant and balanced economy, fine work by our industrialists, exporters and
builders, and solid progress in our social programmes coupled with budgetary stability.
These, taken together with our friendly relations with China and continuing support and
interest from the United Kingdom form a good basis from which to face the future.