HIS EXCELLENCY THE PRESIDENT:―
WELCOME TO NEW MEMBERS
1. I should like to welcome Mr. CHEUNG, Mrs. CHOW and Miss TAM to this Council.
WORK OF THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL
2. This is one of the few occasions each year when I get a chance to pay a public tribute
to the work, devotion and good humour of the Members of this Council. I do so today with
great sincerity. The form of this Council may be an anachronism, but its spirit and
performance match those of any legislature in the world for efficient transaction of business,
for freedom from faction, and for
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981 7
concern not for sectional or party interests but for those of the community as a whole.
These are precious attributes.
3. I am sure that the steady increase in the number of Unofficial Members―they have
more than doubled in ten years - and the expansion of the support available to them in the
U.M.E.L.C.O. Office, have greatly contributed to the effectiveness of this Council. I have
no doubt that as the scope and complexity of the Government of Hong Kong continues to
increase so there must continue to be change in the size and composition of this Council.
Meanwhile I record my grateful thanks for the high quality of work done, and the immense
devotion of personal time and energy to doing it.
PLAN OF THE ADDRESS
4. I will, as usual, start this address with the economy because this is the base on which
all our lives are built. In dealing with it I will begin with the legislation proposed for this
session, go on to describe the state of our public finances, and then review our economy and
its prospects. Then against this background I will report on what your Government has done
and is proposing to do in its major fields of activity, including of course relevant
legislation.
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL
5. In reporting on financial and economic matters I should start off by saying that in this
present situation of world recession Hong Kong and its economy and its people are faring
remarkably well. But this comparative good fortune has been unevenly spread and is not
reflected in the public mood. There are special reasons for this which it is important to
appreciate and will be mentioned in this address. Meanwhile a word about financial and
commercial legislation.
Financial and Commercial legislation
6. 1981 is proving to be a year of reform for our banking and deposit-taking industry. The
Hong Kong Association of Banks has been incorporated by statute to enable it to play a
greater part in the monetary system of Hong Kong. Steps have been taken to limit the
registration of new deposit-taking companies. The definition of banking business contained
in the Banking Ordinance has been amended; a new category of financial institution (the
licensed deposit-taking company) has been created; and after a two-year transitional period,
registered deposit-taking companies will no longer be permitted to accept from the public
deposits repayable within three months.
7. Also this year, the prudential legislation to which banks and deposit-taking companies
are subject has been revised, and new statistical returns are being received from banks and
deposit-taking companies under the Monetary Statistics Ordinance.
8 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981
8. Subject to the advice of the Executive Council, bills will be introduced to amend the
Banking Ordinance and the Deposit-taking Companies Ordinance, in order to extend to
their operations overseas the system of prudential supervision of Hong Kong incorporated
banks and deposit-taking companies.
9. A bill to amend the Companies Ordinance in the light of the recommendations in the
Second Report of the Companies Law Revision Committee was published in the Gazette
last year. I hope it can be introduced this session.
10. To offer better protection to the investing public and to bring Hong Kong into line with
other financial centres, drafting proposals are being prepared on disclosure requirements in
relation to the share holding of directors, major shareholders, advisers and officers of public
companies. The course of consultation now in progress suggests the subject is as complex
and controversial as we expected.
11. At the beginning of this year, two Ordinances were enacted amending the Fire and
Marine Insurance Companies Deposit Ordinance and the Life Insurance Companies
Ordinance, requiring all insurance companies carrying on the relevant classes of business to
have a minimum paid-up capital of $5 million and to maintain a solvency margin. In
consequence a number of insurance companies have been required to increase their paid-up
capital, and some others have either dropped out of the market or have had their
authorization withdrawn. This essentially interim legislation has therefore effected some
weeding out ahead of the comprehensive bill. It is hoped to introduce it this session.
The Public Finances
12. The state of our public finances remains very satisfactory.
13. Revenue collections so far this year have exceeded expectations, due largely to high
yields from interest tax and stamp duties, and of course land sales. If the present trends
continue, revenue will substantially exceed the original estimate and the budgetted surplus
of $7,800 million will be surpassed, thereby reinforcing its disinflationary effect.
14. Total expenditure for the year is now expected to exceed the estimate by nearly 10%,
mainly because of substantial increases in salaries, increased spending on public works, and
the desalter.
15. At present we can easily meet the increased expenditure and still achieve a larger
budget surplus, and clearly purely budgetary restraints are not a problem. However, not
only must we allow for the possibility of revenue falling off while the need for further
expenditure does not, but in this inflationary situation there are macro-economic restraints
on expenditure that cannot be ignored if our goods are to remain competitive and our
currency remain stable. What the Government can do may be limited in comparison to the
more massive effect of
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981 9
the private sector on credit creation and consequently on total final demand; but it is still
important that Government expenditure should not fall too far out of step with the growth
of the economy. This we will watch.
The Economy in 1980
16. In 1980 the gross domestic product grew by 10% in real terms, the fifth successive
year of rapid growth. As in 1979, there was a fair degree of stability with the growth rate of
total final demand roughly in line with that of the economy’s output. Growth continued to
be export-led, though to a much lesser extent than in 1979. But in the second half of the
year as Hong Kong became increasingly affected by the sluggish state of the world
economy, there was a decline in the growth rate of domestic exports. During roughly the
same period, the growth rate of domestic demand picked up. So in the second half of the
year, there was a shift from domestic exports to domestic demand as the impetus to
economic growth.
17. Continuing the trend started in 1979, prices increased rapidly in 1980. This was due to
similar increases in the rest of the world, coupled with the impact of exchange rates on the
Hong Kong dollar price of imports. Domestic influences on prices were generally
favourable to the slowing down of inflation as there were few marked imbalances between
the demand for and the supply of domestic resources. In particular the supply of labour
grew rapidly during 1980 because of the direct and indirect effect of immigration, and
exceeded the increase in demand for labour, leading to a slight rise in unemployment.
18. The main imbalance was in the land and property market. Prices and rents for property
generally, and particularly for commercial property continued to rise, reflecting a demand
for commercial property in excess of its supply, in itself a sign of confidence in Hong Kong,
and the prices developers were prepared to bid for land rose sharply. But the influence on
prices of demand was undoubtedly exaggerated and aggravated by speculation. But in the
latter months of 1980, the increasing supply of land and property coupled with high interest
rates appeared to be having some effect on demand.
19. I should add that the two disturbing and inflationary features of last year―rapid
growth of domestic demand in the second half and very high land and property prices, were
both supported by a rapid expansion of credit.
The Economy in 1981
20. In 1981, developments in the economy have been, to some extent, a continuation of the
trends of the second half of 1980. In the first six months, the growth of domestic demand
continued to be rapid and so the relative shift from domestic exports to domestic demand as
the main impetus to economic growth was maintained. Although we can expect the G.D.P.
to grow by 10% in real terms such growth is still being led by domestic demand. But we
can take comfort from the fact that domestic exports are holding up remarkably well despite
adverse conditions abroad, and we expect an increase over 1980 of
10 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981
about 7% in real terms, helped mainly by fairly buoyant demand from the United States.
Although this growth rate is lower than those recorded in the previous three years, at 7% it
is a very respectable rate in the circumstances. It is also reassuring that the growth rate of
domestic demand now shows signs of slowing down.
21. Re-exports have continued to grow rapidly in 1981, so that total exports will probably
show an increase of about 15% over 1980 in real terms. Nevertheless the growth rate of
total imports in value terms in 1981 so far has been somewhat faster than that of total
exports. But in terms of Hong Kong’s overall trade position, the visible trade account
continues to show a fair degree of stability, with the visible trade ‘gap’ having widened
only slightly in percentage terms.
22. The relative stability in the economy is also evidenced by there being no obvious
imbalance between the demand for and the supply of domestic resources with the obvious
exception of housing and land. In March this year 162 000 more people were employed in
Hong Kong than in March last year. But in spite of this strong increase in demand for
labour, the growth of supply continued to be rather too rapid for the economy to absorb, and
there was a further increase in the unemployment rate to 4.1% by March this year, though it
has probably not increased since.
23. There are also signs of easing in the property market and of a fall-back in prices. On
the one hand, demand is being dampened by high prices and interest rates. On the other
hand, supply, particularly of commercial property, is now meeting the previous excess
demand. Land prices have similarly begun to ease in most areas. To the extent that the
former price levels in the property market were due to speculation the fall-back is to be
welcomed.
24. Domestically generated inflation appears to have moderated in 1981, with the gross
domestic product deflator now running at about 10% per annum, but the rate of increase in
consumer prices, at about 14% per annum has continued to be rapid. This is attributable to
increases in world prices and to the depreciation of the Hong Kong dollar. It is undoubtedly
a serious matter for our people. Even though, on average, money incomes have been
increasing at an even more rapid rate and even though employment is relatively full, and
that in these respects there has been some overall improvement over 1980, there are still
sectors in which real incomes are static or have fallen, and many more in which the rate of
increase in real family incomes has not been as fast as in the latter 70s and with
consequential disappointment.
Prospects for 1982
25. As for 1982, the balance of opinion is that some recovery in the world’s major
economies, albeit hard to quantify, can be expected, with some beneficial effect on world
trade. Much turns on the level of interest rates, particularly in the United States, but I repeat
that the consensus is that things are likely to be better not worse; the recession is bottoming
out. And where there is some
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981 11
revival in demand we are well placed to take advantage of it. Our ability to react quickly to
meet an increase in export orders has been well demonstrated in the past, and with the
recent depreciation in the exchange value of the Hong Kong dollar, our prices are now very
competitive. So while awaiting the economic tide in the world to turn, I have confidence
that when it does, Hong Kong will experience yet another year of prosperity.
Multi-Fibre Arrangement
26. Of course I realize the many worries of our businessmen in spite of the comparative
buoyancy of our economy. They result from measures of various sorts in our leading
markets aimed at containing inflation. Nevertheless in spite of it all we have not done too
badly so far. But there is one particular point of concern. The expiry of the Multi-Fibre
Arrangement at the end of this year, and the requirement for its renegotiation cast a big
shadow on the future of our textile and apparel exports which provide jobs for nearly half
our industrial workforce. Its renegotiation on satisfactory terms is a major objective of your
Government. The developing countries have never been so united in their determination to
secure a fairer better-defined M.F.A. under whose provisions their bilateral trade with
developed countries can be conducted. Our negotiators will shortly be meeting again with
those from other developing countries to seek out a common position for the next round of
negotiations in Geneva in November. But we have no illusions about our situation. With
recession and high unemployment the governments of developed countries are under
immense political pressure to take a hard line―however irrelevant statistics may prove our
exports have been to that recession and unemployment.
27. At this point one cannot predict the outcome. Fortunately we have some of the best
negotiators in the textile world and they are ably advised by the Textile Advisory Board.
We will play a full part in our own right in the negotiations and vigorously defend the
interests of our industry. We also look to the U.K. to see that the special circumstances of
Hong Kong are recognized and that we get fair treatment.
Conclusion
28. As you will have noted, in spite of some dark patches, this picture of our situation is
favourable against the background of an unfavourable worldwide situation. But I am
obliged to emphasize three unfavourable features.
29. Firstly, the impact of recent immigration has been very great. For instance the average
annual increase in population, including natural increase, between 1971 and 1978 was 1.8%
per annum, but it more than doubled to 3.8% per annum between 1979 and 1981. The
growth in the labour force has been even more dramatic, being 3.4% a year between 1971
and 1978 but 7.4% between 1979 and 1981. Immigrant labour was one direct cause of this
increased growth. It also provided an indirect cause in that by restraining wage increases,
12 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981
additional persons went to work so as to maintain the rising level of family income to which
they had been accustomed. The impact of these unforeseen numbers will be felt in many
ways for many years to come.
30. Secondly, sharp rises into the cost of accommodation and land, fuelled by the easy
availability of credit have caused considerable distress. In the knowledge that large supplies
of accommodation and land were coming forward that should arrest or reverse the upward
trend, your Government, after some hesitation, decided not to intervene in the commercial
sector. As expected the upward trend has been arrested this year partly because of
additional supply stimulated by high prices and partly because the high cost of borrowing
depressed demand. A closer balance between supply and demand has now been achieved.
But, because it takes time for supply in the property market to catch up with increases in
demand. I fear that the experience we have been through may be repeated in the future. At
the end of each of these cycles, it is true we benefit from a substantial increase in the stock
of accommodation but, with the effect of ordinary market forces or forces distorted by
speculation, at a substantial social cost. I will be explaining one new departure in the
Government’s own housing programme to counteract the abrasive effect of inflated land
and property prices, and also our extensive plans for land production.
31. Thirdly, while a depreciating Hong Kong dollar helps export competitiveness, it adds
inflationary pressures to the economy. But another factor which is adding pressure to
inflation, or at least is accommodating it, and is weakening the Hong Kong dollar, is the
rapid growth of money supply which in turn is largely the result of excessive credit growth.
So obviously we have been giving serious thought to whether or not the growth of the
money supply should be contained, and if so, how it might be done, particularly without
putting further pressure on our industry which remains the backbone of our economy. This
limits the use that can be made of interest rates. The recent rise was unavoidable and was
made in the hope that banks will find means of helping industry and exports here. But we
sincerely hope external circumstances will permit its reduction as soon as possible. The
Financial Secretary has recently spoken in detail about the various possibilities of
Government intervention in the special circumstances of Hong Kong, and of his strong
preference for restraint of credit by the self-discipline and responsibility of banks and
deposit-taking companies. I heartily agree. We are committed in principle to as free an
economy as possible. Nevertheless this assumes that we as a community have the good
sense to act freely without undermining our economy. Obviously recent events cast some
doubt on this, and the Financial Secretary is watching the situation closely.
DEVELOPMENT
General
32. It is against this economic background that your Government must continue to plan the
development of Hong Kong. The fundamental problem is
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981 13
to plan provision for a population of over five million, increasing in numbers and prosperity
and aspirations, in a tiny territory whose terrain seems specially designed to impede
development on land. The problem is not only to provide the social, medical and security
services that all communities need. In the case of Hong Kong one must plan also the
demographic redistribution without which no rise in the quality of life is possible, and also
the land formation, the employment opportunities, the housing, the community facilities
and of course the transport without which new development in new areas would not attract
residents. The mismatches that recurred in Tuen Mun and Sha Tin emphasize the
importance of co-ordinating provision of community facilities with population composition
and build-up.
33. This process is now going ahead fast and the new towns outside the old urban areas are
taking shape. The conurbation of Tsuen Wan already has a population of 607 000 and Sha
Tin and Tuen Mun together already total 250 000 and should reach 800 000 by 1985.
Similar development is taking place at Tai Po, Sheung Shui/Fan Ling and Yuen Long. How
to ensure that living, active, satisfied, and cohesive communities are formed amid these
towering new edifices where so recently was sea or paddy is one of the great social and
administrative challenges facing your Government.
Land Production
34. The key element in the smooth continuation of development is the production and sale
of new land. In 1982-83, total land formation is expected to reach 580 net hectares―all
these figures are net with 84 hectares designated for industrial development including 34 to
be formed by the Industrial Estates Corporation, 48 for commercial and private residential
development, and 448 for public purposes, including public housing, community facilities
and roads. Total land formation in 1983-84 and 1984-85 is expected to be on average about
12% more than these figures for 1982-83. Although in themselves they represent a startling
advance upon land production in the late 1970s, they are no more than sufficient to meet
our minimum needs and every effort is being made to improve upon them.
35. Inevitably most of our land production is undertaken by the Government, principally
through the new towns development programmes. But there is scope for the private sector
to play an important part. Several instances can already be cited in which private sector
developers have formed substantial areas of land either for individual projects or larger
development packages. Our firm intention is to expand considerably the opportunities for
the private sector to become involved in this vital field of activity. In particular, I would
wish to see direct private sector participation in comprehensive land production and
development and on a scale much greater than ever before. The new town development
programme and other large scale development in the New Territories will provide the
necessary opportunities.
14 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981
Land Sales
36. The Special Committee on Land Supply, chaired by Miss DUNN, has compared
forecasts of land production up to 1984-85 with the Government’s own requirements and
those of the private sector. The targets set by the Committee call for the sale in 1982-83 of
at least 58 hectares of land for private development. Nevertheless we must aim as far as
possible to exceed these targets in order to further housing and diversification and to assist
in stabilizing land prices. In fact this year the Government hopes to sell close on 100
hectares of land, and I am confident that we will achieve at least a similar level of sales in
1982-83. I am sure we will be assisted in this by the close watch maintained by Miss
DUNN’s Committee.
Planning of land use
37. After 1985 and through to the 1990s, the major needs for land should be met initially
from developments at Ma On Shan and Junk Bay and probably in the North West. In the
longer term the most careful strategic planning will be necessary. The development
potentials of Hong Kong Island, Kowloon, the inner harbour, the North Eastern and North
Western New Territories and North Lantau are now all being separately investigated, and
these investigations include the best site for a new airport and the transport system
necessary to sustain it. The results of all these studies will be brought together by the end of
1982 to produce a number of options for the future development of land resources and
transport services. Further knowledge of the pattern of development immediately North of
the Border, should by then greatly assist us in deciding on our own plans.
38. The complexity and importance of this work for the future of Hong Kong explains the
recent appointment of a separate Secretary for Lands and Works.
Commercial and Industrial Building
39. Planned provision of job opportunities is an essential element of development.
Construction of commercial buildings in both the old urban areas and also in the new towns
has responded fast to the demand created by the increasing size of the tertiary sector and to
the very high prices that some were prepared to pay for shops, offices and other commercial
premises. Total stock of floor space will increase by 11% this year and by a further 12%
next year. Similarly, substantial progress has been made with the construction of factory
space of which the total area will increase by 11% this year and 13% next. Taken together a
further 2.9 million square metres will be added to our commercial and industrial floor space
bringing the increase in total stock over the two-year period to a staggering 25%.
Housing
40. Our hopes for a better-housed population have been constantly deferred― by
rephasing in the recession of 1974 and in the over-heated economic situation of 1979, and
subsequently and most importantly by the wave of immigration.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981 15
Though, as I shall show, our housing production is now beating all records, there is still a
clear need for expansion of the programme.
Public Sector
41. Following the completion of 33 000 units in 1979-80 the public sector completed a
record number of 37 600 flats in the last financial year: 27 400 for rental including 600 by
the Housing Society, and for sale 8,700 under the Government’s Home Ownership Scheme,
and 1,500 under the Private Sector Participation Scheme. This high level can be maintained;
the sites and the money are there; it is good by any standard, but the situation with which
we are now faced calls for something more.
42. In the first place we have decided to revise the Home Ownership Scheme as soon as
possible so that the high land values that have been included in the price hitherto do not
frustrate the social purpose of the average of 5 000 units a year to be built under the Scheme.
In future, as in public housing estates for rental, land value will be excluded from the
charge. This should reduce prices to about half those in the free market, well within the
means of the families for whom the Scheme is intended. The Secretary for Housing is to
give details but obviously with such favourable and subsidized terms there must be
safeguards against profiteering on resale. The proposal is to forbid resale, except to the
Housing Authority, for the first ten years, thereafter a premium would be payable on sale to
make good to the Government the large element of subsidy in the original price adjusted to
current open market prices.
43. Similar arrangements will also apply to the additional 5 000 units a year planned for
sale in the Private Sector Participation Scheme, and the further 2 500 planned for the
Middle Income Housing Programme.
44. Thus there will be 12 500 units a year for sale at prices well within the means of the
middle and lower-middle income groups, insulated against the vagaries of the land market.
Since completions on this scale are essential to our needs, if sites offered to the Private
Sector Participation Scheme do not attract adequate tenders they will be taken over and
developed as part of the Home Ownership Scheme.
45. With a rental scheme planned to run at about 30 000 units a year, the annual
completion of public sector units, including those produced under the Home Ownership and
Private Sector Participation Schemes and the Middle Income Housing Programme, should
thus steadily rise from the current level of at least 35 000 units to over 42 000 by 1985-86.
The Private Sector
46. The performance of the private sector in the year ended 31 March, with 21 000 units
completed, was rather less than in the previous year. However, the forecast for this year’s
total is to exceed 31 000 units. This should raise the figure of completions for the public
and private sector combined to about 71 500 units for the current year, compared with 59
100 units for last year.
16 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981
Forecast of Future Requirements
47. Where will construction on the scale planned get us? The dimensions of our housing
shortage are very hard to quantify with accuracy. A comparison of the number of
households recorded in the census against our stock of self-contained flats in the public and
private sectors produces a shortage of some 260 000 flats. This is on various assumptions
including that 50% of one and two person households will continue to share
accommodation with others. If we succeed in completing an average, and I stress the word
average, of about 40 000 units a year in the public and 26 000 a year in the private sector,
over the next five years, that is to say 330 000 new flats by the end of the financial year 85-
86, after allowing for increase in population and demolition of existing flats for
redevelopment and the trend towards the formation of more, smaller house-holds, the
shortfall should be reduced to about 90 000 and unforeseen circumstances apart the
problem should be reduced to manageable proportions in the second half of this decade.
48. I am aware of the many pitfalls in these figures and predictions, but I have dared to use
them to illustrate how immense the task facing us is, and how essential it is that both public
and private sectors continue to build to their maximum capacity if the task is to be
accomplished.
Conclusion
49. Two further points on this important subject.
50. Firstly the solution to this problem assumes a large contribution by the private sector.
Consequently if private sector production falls off, other ways of encouraging it, or an
increase in Government construction, must be considered.
51. Secondly the sharp rise in land and property prices, in addition to interest rates, has
greatly aggravated the effects of housing shortage. Housing otherwise available has become
beyond the means of those who need it, and the proportion of family incomes spent on rents
or mortgages has been grossly inflated. This is perhaps the greatest single cause of
unhappiness and worry in Hong Kong at this time. You will note that the Government’s
answer is to build over 42 000 flats a year which will be either sold or rented on a basis that
totally excludes land value on the open market.
Rent Control
52. In June, this Council passed the Landlord and Tenant (Consolidation) (Amendment)
Ordinance, which extended the present framework of rent controls for a further two years,
while at the same time adjusting the maximum permitted increase in controlled rents from
21% to 30% biennially, and excluding by two annual phases flats with a very high rateable
value.
53. A large number of recommendations made by the Committee of Review remain to be
put into effect. Legislation will be introduced this session; to establish a Tribunal system to
provide reasonable security of tenure to tenants of premises not otherwise protected by the
Ordinance and who are prepared to
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981 17
pay a fair market rent; additional protection for sub-tenancies; and safeguards with regard
to the redevelopment of controlled premises.
Transport
54. An effective transport system is an essential part of our development. I have to admit
that the development of our road system, which affects public and private vehicles alike,
has been delayed by rephasing in 1974 and 1979. It seemed unavoidable at the time. Now
we are trying hard to catch up, and a whole series of road and rail developments in both the
old urban areas and the New Territories should steadily transform the present often
unsatisfactory state of affairs. This year alone $4 billion will be spent on transport projects.
55. Though major improvements will be coming into service all the time, such as the
Aberdeen Tunnel, the Airport Tunnel, the Tsuen Wan Extension of the M.T.R. and the
modernization of the K.C.R. and its interchange with the M.T.R.―all within a year―it will
not be until between 1984 and 1986 that some major areas of congestion are cleared by
completion of the Island Line and Eastern Corridor, the Kowloon Western Corridor, the
Tsuen Wan by-pass and the New Territories circular road.
56. Early relief through works is therefore not possible in many places and meanwhile we
must face the fact that our total vehicle population has increased by 64% in five years and
private cars by 75%. No doubt it is the result of unexpectedly high and consistent prosperity,
but the consequence is unexpectedly high and consistent congestion. I am afraid that the
question has become no longer whether restraints on road use are necessary, but only what
would be the most effective and least inconvenient form that they should take.
57. In addition to the works I have described which should bring substantial relief by the
mid―80s, there are many major transport problems to be studied and solved. They include
a further cross-harbour link, access to the new development area in Junk Bay, transport
facilities to link with Kowloon the very large additional town that will shortly be built
between Sha Tin and Ma On Shan, and of course the siting and transport support for a new
airport.
58. With many immediate, medium and long term problems to solve, of such a highly
technical and contentious nature, your Government has set up a new Transport Branch in
the Secretariat headed by its own Secretary, and is also strenghtening the Transport
Department by the transfer of some staff from the Highways Office of the P.W.D. The
Secretary for Transport and his Branch and his planning unit will work in the closest
possible collaboration with the Secretary for Lands and Works and with those responsible
for new development whether in the Urban Area or the New Territories.
THE ENVIRONMENT
59. The complement to intensive residential and industrial development in such parts of
Hong Kong as can be built on, is to prevent and control pollution and pressure the natural
assets of the rest of the territory in country parks.
18 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981
Environmental Protection
60. Pollution in Hong Kong has grown rapidly, particularly water pollution, and as a
community we are becoming painfully aware of what is at stake. The first step has been to
engage experts to examine our problems and advise on suitable legislation. This
complicated process is far advanced. The Water Pollution Control and Waste Disposal
Ordinances were enacted last year. Regulations governing disposal of toxic and hazardous
wastes should be brought into force during this session. Also during this session we expect
to introduce Bills relating to air pollution, the illegal dumping of earth and trade waste, and
the provision of refuse storage chambers in certain multi-storey buildings. Work is
continuing on the drafting of a Noise Control Bill.
61. The Environmental Protection Agency has been established to provide expertise,
scientific data and co-ordination on all aspects of pollution and its control. With this
legislative and administrative groundwork done, the difficult work of enforcement of
carefully phased plans of pollution control will gradually gather momentum. To mark this
new phase the Chairmanship of the Environmental Protection Committee has been restored
to an Unofficial, in this case Mr. FORSGATE.
Country Parks
62. We now have over 408 square kilometres, nearly half the territory, designated as
Country Parks, and in them development can only take place after very special
consideration. The parks have drawn heavily on United Kingdom experience and
particularly on that of the Forestry Commission. They have a staff of over 1 330 and their
job is not only to preserve the natural beauty of these large tracts of mountain and beach
from despoliation by fire and litter, but also to encourage enjoyment and knowledge of the
countryside by the provision of paths and sites for picnics and camping. On a weekend in
the dry weather they will be used by up to 100 000 people. All this is part of the planning of
the development of Hong Kong.
SOCIAL PROGRAMMES
63. I now turn to the social programmes. Like the physical development I have described
their expansion, too, is planned. I have already dealt with housing.
Education
Pre-Primary and Primary Education
64. So first education. To start at the beginning. The White Paper on Primary Education
and Pre-Primary Services published in July put forward the first comprehensive scheme for
the development of kindergartens and child-care centres. In primary schools it envisaged in
particular the reduction of class sizes from 45 to 35 for schools adopting the activity
approach and to 40 for those following conventional methods. If approved by this Council,
these reforms will require 1 500 additional teaching posts.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981 19
Junior Secondary Education
65. In junior secondary education, as recently as 1971, subsidized places were only
available for 30% of the age group. Now it is free, available, and compulsory for all. This
was a giant step forward. But in conjunction with many other and unrelated factors it has
brought to a head realization both of new requirements in our education, and of the new
strains that are being placed on schools by having to deal with pupils of a much wider
spread of ability and including a small minority reluctant to be in school at all. These
problems must be faced and I will come back to them.
Senior Secondary Education
66. Universal junior secondary education has brought with it increased demand and
competition for places in Forms IV and V. Here too there has been dramatic change. In
1971 the 19 000 subsidized places in Form IV catered for only 20% of the 15-year agegroup. This year over 57 000 places will cover 60%, and, on current plans, by the mid-80s
the percentage will have increased to 70%. Taken together with other forms of education
such as the technical institutes, 90% of that age group will be catered for at that time. As
more senior secondary places become available, the significance of the Junior Secondary
Education Assessment and the pressures associated with it should fade.
Problems in Secondary Education
67. The problems I have referred to in the secondary stream cover a field stretching from
inadequate knowledge of Chinese and English to indiscipline and even delinquency. Your
Government is endeavouring to overcome these problems. As you know it has been decided
to set up an Institute of Language in Education and the feasibility of establishing a Chinese
Language Foundation is being studied. Syllabuses are being introduced into secondary
schools that provide a wider and more interesting choice, more suited to pupils with a wider
span of ability. Twelve more pre-vocational schools will be built by 83-84, and more will
be included in the future building programme, to cater for those whose aptitude is for
practical and technical rather than academic subjects.
68. But your Government accepts that schools do need help with extra services and extra
staff in their new predicament. Expansion of the School Social Work Scheme at both
primary and secondary levels is continuing and it is hoped that by 1982 it will be adequate
to the needs of all schools that wish to use the scheme. But the added burden on the schools
understandably requires the provision of some more teachers. Your Government is already
committed to the provision of two additional teachers for remedial language work for each
standard school. In addition, it is considering whether more teachers could help in such
areas as career counselling, remedial teaching and extra-curricular activities. However, no
decision has yet been taken and any such proposals could require more than 1 600 extra
secondary school teachers.
69. Obviously the introduction of so many new teachers into both the primary and
secondary streams would require very careful phasing, additional training
20 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981
facilities, and of course there would be financial implications. No decision has yet been
reached; but your Government recognizes that one is urgently needed, and the Secretary for
Education hopes to be able to make definite proposals before the end of the year.
Overall Review of Education
70. The Overall Review of our education system recommended by the Board of Education
has commenced. The Panel of Visitors assisted by two Special Advisers will follow the
well-established practices of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and
Development (O.E.C.D.) in examining the education system of its member-countries. Its
findings are expected next summer.
Tertiary Education
71. Following advice that our existing growth plans for the Universities may be inadequate,
as an interim measure, the Government increased the growth rate from 3% to 4% per year.
It also appointed a committee to conduct a comprehensive review of post-secondary and
technical education. The Committee’s report has subsequently been discussed with the
University and Polytechnic Grants Committee and it will shortly be considered by the panel
conducting the overall review of education. The Government will then draft a programme
for the development of this whole area. While I am mindful of the high percentage of the
education budget already devoted to tertiary education, I am in no doubt that our output of
technicians, higher technicians and graduates needs to be increased, though to what extent
and in which institutions and faculties needs very careful consideration.
72. Meantime, the Government is improving the position by making better use of some
existing institutions. With the agreement of the Governors of the Baptist College a bill will
be introduced this session to make better arrangements for its future development.
73. I am acutely aware of the problems faced by the 15 000-20 000 Hong Kong students in
overseas universities, particularly those studying in Britain, who recently faced severe
increases in tuition fees. The Government has introduced a loan scheme for Hong Kong
students in Britain with effect from September of this year. This should bring some measure
of relief. But whatever we do undoubtedly our local system must be further developed, and
our reliance on overseas places reduced.
Technical Education and Industrial Training
74. Subject to the approval of Executive Council legislation will shortly be introduced to
create a statutory Vocational Training Council which will have executive as well as
advisory powers for the promotion of industrial training. Both Technical Institutes and
industry training schemes will come within the purview of the Council, which will have its
own department to serve as its executive arm.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981 21
75. The Construction Industry and the Clothing Industry Training Authorities will
maintain their current financing arrangements and also expand their activities.
SOCIAL WELFARE
Social Security
76. The Social Welfare Department, amongst other things, administers the safety net that
protects those who through no fault of their own lack means of support in our competitive
society. The past year saw significant improvements in benefits payable under the Public
Assistance Scheme. In addition to automatic cost-of-living increases, the basic value of
Public Assistance was increased by 25% last July to reflect in part the general improvement
in the standard of living of the community. Rent allowances were doubled for single
persons and increased 1½ times for households with more than one member.
77. The 1977 Green Paper ‘Help for Those Least Able to Help Themselves’ advocated a
semi-voluntary contributory sickness, injury and death benefit scheme. After much
discussion with both sides of industry your Government has concluded that this would be
too difficult to apply. But alternative proposals to cover the same risks, without employee
contribution under the Employment Ordinance have now been formulated, with the
agreement of the Labour Advisory Board and both sides of industry. These envisage
entitlement to sick leave with pay under the Employment Ordinance being extended up to
an accumulated maximum of 120 days, and again under the Employment Ordinance a death
grant being payable to the family of a wage-earner at a flat rate of $3,000 if the death
occurs during employment, and subject to a qualifying period of service. Where this death
grant is not payable by the employer, an equivalent grant, subject to certain conditions,
would be payable without means-test under the Special Needs Allowance (S.N.A.) scheme
administered by the Social Welfare Department. Amendments to the Employment
Ordinance in the above sense will be introduced during this session, and arrangements to
introduce the death grant under the S.N.A. scheme are being made.
Services for Youth and the Elderly
78. The phased introduction of services for young people and the elderly set out in the
1979 White Paper ‘Social Welfare into the 1980s’ is continuing. The Secretary for Social
Services will give details of the progress being made in providing new Community and
Youth Centres and manning them, and the expansion of the various forms of personal social
work. The importance of the latter has been underlined by the Working Group on Juvenile
Crime.
79. Members will be particularly interested in progress in provision for elderly persons not
supported by families. All new housing estates of 3 000 flats or above will now include
accommodation for an old people’s hostel with a capacity of 150. This should bring the
number of hostel and home places in public housing from the present 1 475 to about 7 000
by 1988-89 or a total of
22 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981
about 10 600 if provision outside further housing estates is included. The special quota for
elderly persons applying for public housing in groups will continue to provide 300 flats
more each year. In addition, 2 000 new places in Care and Attention Homes will be
provided by 1983-84. Other services such as day care centres, home helpers, multi-service
centres and social centres are being further developed.
Manpower Shortage
80. A shortage of trained social workers is affecting provision of services and limiting
their expansion. A working party is considering solutions to the problem.
Rehabilitation
81. 1981 is the International Year of the Disabled Person. This event, coupled with Dr.
FANG’s election as President of Rehabilitation International, has helped our community to
focus on the problems of the disabled.
82. The activities of the year attempt to awaken us to the problems and needs of the
disabled, and to demonstrate how we can assist their integration. This is our declared policy
and the Theme for the Year and there are signs of success. But it will be important to
maintain momentum, and the public education campaign started in this year will need to
continue.
83. I am glad to say that steady progress is being made towards achieving the objectives
outlined in the 1977 Rehabilitation White Paper.
84. The developmental screening programme covering children from birth to the age of
five which first started in part-time centres in 1978 is now available in 34 family health
centres performing 100 000 examinations a year. The school screening service carries on
the work of the developmental screening programme, and audiometric screening is being
extended to all primary 1 pupils this year. Vision screening will be extended to all primary
1 pupils in 1982 and speech screening to all primary 3 pupils in 1984-85.
85. In special education the current provision of 28 860 places more than doubles the 1977
figure of 12 160, but large shortfalls remain, particularly in provision for the mentally
handicapped, and slow learners. This is compounded by a lack of teachers and lack of
enthusiasm among school sponsors for expanding special classes for slow learners in
ordinary schools. Nevertheless, over 3 000 additional special places are being provided in
1981-82.
86. Kwai Chung Hospital will provide an additional 1 300 beds for the mentally ill,
bringing the total provision to nearly 3 800. A further about 1 700 beds for the mentally ill
are planned for the period to 1990, together with a further 500 beds for the severely
mentally handicapped, when the estimated shortfalls should be largely, though not wholly,
eliminated.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981 23
87. Significant improvements can be expected in medical rehabilitation services when the
new centre of the Hong Kong Society for Rehabilitation at Sandy Bay is completed in 1983.
Medical and Health Services
88. While our educational and social welfare facilities have not been significantly
stretched so far by the impact of immigrants, the Medical and Health Department’s services
have been. It is therefore timely that a number of major projects have come on stream or are
about to do so. The Kwai Chung Hospital with 1 300 beds for the mentally ill received its
first patients last November. The Prince Philip Dental Hospital, one of the best equipped in
the world, was opened by H.R.H. Prince Philip in March this year. The Kwong Wah
Hospital New Wing is being commissioned now. Improvements to Fanling Hospital and
Pok Oi Hospital have also been completed on schedule.
89. Next year the newly built 600-bed cardiothoracic centre at the Grantham Hospital will
provide the most up-to-date and sophisticated treatment techniques for heart diseases. The 1
400-bed Prince of Wales Hospital at Sha Tin will serve as the teaching hospital for our
second Medical School at the Chinese University of Hong Kong as well as the regional
hospital for the eastern New Territories. Construction of a new regional hospital for the
western New Territories at Tuen Mun will start next year.
90. Further plans are in hand for new government hospitals in East Kowloon, Tai Po and
Shau Kei Wan, with capacities ranging from 1 200 to 1 500 beds. In addition, major
extensions include 200 beds for Pok Oi, 500 for Yan Chai and 775 for United Christian
Hospital.
91. In order to relieve pressure on acute hospital beds, the Medial Development Advisory
Committee has endorsed a programme for the provision of infirmaries for patients requiring
long term care. Apart from the 300-bed extension to the Wong Tai Sin Infirmary which is
expected to be completed early next year, three more infirmaries of about 700-900 beds
each have been recommended.
92. The above programme would increase our stock of hospital beds from the present 20
800 to 36 300 and achieve the Medical Development Advisory Committee’s target of 5.7
beds per 1 000 population by 1990, compared to 4 beds per 1 000 population now.
93. Three major new clinics are expected to be completed before the end of the year at Lei
Muk Shue, Ngau Tau Kok and the Yan Oi Polyclinic, Stage I at Tuen Mun. Three more, the
LI Ka-shing Polyclinic at Sha Tin and clinics at the Cheung Hong Estate at Tsing Yi and the
Shun Lee Tsuen Estate in East Kowloon are expected to open next year. In addition a third
floating clinic will serve outlying areas.
24 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981
94. It is your Government’s intention to concentrate future provision of clinic services in
the new towns and in outlying areas where there are fewer private medical practitioners.
Our plans involve almost doubling the present number of consulting rooms from 254 to 486,
and achieving a ratio of 7.6 consulting rooms per 100 000 population by 1990 compared to
5.4 at present.
95. The implementation of the programme outlined above would depend not only on
priorities within the Public Works Programme and budget, but also the supply of
professional staff; doctors, nurses and para-medicals. On present forecasts, and particularly
in regard to doctors there will be a shortfall, even on existing standards, let alone improved
ones. It is therefore rather doubtful that this expansion of services can all be completed by
1990 as recommended by the Advisory Committee. Nevertheless, if overcrowding is to be
eliminated, we must press on up to the limits of building and staffing capacity.
96. A special unit headed by a senior consultant has recently been set up in the Medical
and Health Department with specific responsibility for manpower development and to
consider ways and means of increasing the supply of doctors in the public sector. At the
same time the University and Polytechnic Grants Committee is being asked to advise on the
possibility of increasing intake to the medical schools, and efforts to recruit from overseas
will also be intensified.
IMMIGRATION PROBLEMS
I now turn to a completely different subject.
Vietnamese Refugees
97. Before the Geneva Conference in 1979 the flood of Vietnamese boat refugees was a
nightmare. Since then the problem has continued but at a comparatively low level. There is
no evidence of a resumption of massive organized departures. Nevertheless arrivals in
Hong Kong for this year so far already exceed the total for the whole of last year: and
arrivals in other first asylum countries show a similar, if less marked, trend. So the fact is
that large numbers of people still remain prepared to face unbelievable risks at sea to escape
the conditions in their homeland.
98. Faced with this human tragedy we have continued to provide first asylum to those who
reach our shores. This is right. But it is also right that the international community should
continue to play its part in resettlement. Over 74 000 refugees have been resettled from
Hong Kong since 1979. We are particularly grateful for the efforts made in resettlement by
the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom and for the work of the United Nations
High Commission for Refugees and of the voluntary agencies. But we still have over 14
000 refugees and they continue to arrive. If places of first asylum like Hong Kong are to
continue to play their part then resettlement programmes must continue.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981 25
Immigration from China
99. Immigrants from China fall into a completely different category to Vietnamese boat
refugees. I have already referred to the impact on our life of excessive immigration, and
particularly of illegal immigration. With the support of this Council drastic measures were
introduced last October. The traditional ‘reached base’ policy was abolished and since then
all illegal immigrants who evaded our security screen and were detected have been
repatriated. To facilitate the detection of illegals all legal residents of Hong Kong have been
required to carry identity documents; and to remove the incentive to come here the
employment of illegal immigrants has been banned. I am most grateful for the
responsibility and good humour with which the public have accepted the need for these
measures.
100. Coupled with the co-operation of the Chinese authorities, the unrelenting effort of
our security forces, and the strong support of the public, these measures substantially
reduced the flow. During 1980, over 80 000 illegal immigrants were arrested while trying to
enter Hong Kong. For the first nine months of 1981 the number arrested was about 7 600.
The daily average of arrests in September 1980 was 450. Last month it was less than 30 a
day.
101. We can only hold this position by constant efforts by the garrison and police. To
deter the manufacture of forged documents the penalties for forgery offences have been
increased. Measures have also been taken to control and identify speed boats.
102. Illegal immigration has now been greatly reduced, but the number of those who
arrive here legally for a visit and stay permanently still adds 55 000 people to our
population each year. After the flood of the last few years we need a respite. It would be
helpful to reduce the numbers coming here for permanent settlement while at the same time
providing for genuine visitors whose return to their homes in China was assured. But we
can only act in co-operation with the Chinese authorities for whom I know this is not an
easy matter.
LAW, ORDER & SECURITY
103. I come now to the inter-related subjects of Narcotics, Corruption and Crime.
Narcotics
104. We have come a long way in controlling narcotics. No one who knows now points a
finger at Hong Kong anymore. We still have a large problem but it is being tackled with
vigour and success. As a result of very effective law enforcement and compulsory and
voluntary treatment the number of addicts is now believed to number about 40 000 as
against the guess of over 100 000 seven years ago. Moreover addiction is an ageing vice.
Higher living standards and education are reducing the number of young addicts. Of those
admitted to the
26 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981
Prisons Department’s Drug Addiction Treatment Centres those under 21 dropped from
13.8% in 1974 to 3.4% last year.
105. The same trend is evident among adults. Since 1976, when the methadone
programme was greatly expanded, to the end of 1980, there has been a drop of 73% in the
number of addicts in Prisons and a drop of 84% in those charged with drug offences.
106. Against this background of significant achievement, complacency would be our
worst enemy. This year’s bumper crop of opium in the Golden Triangle has produced an
abundant supply, and there are plenty of signs of criminals trying to distribute it here by
many methods, including the use of young people. To meet this threat law enforcement is
being stepped up and so far this year more drugs have been seized than in the whole of last
year. We will keep up our efforts, and we will continue to make progress, but the real
answer to quick success lies in enforcement in the Golden Triangle itself.
Independent Commission Against Corruption
107. There has been an increase in the number of corruption reports being made to the
Independent Commission Against Corruption, and the Commission’s intelligence confirms
that there is some increase. The Commission is well able to deal with this as its prosecution
records show, and indeed the figures may reflect little more than that the Commission is on
its toes, and that its sources have improved. Nevertheless the figures do underline the fact
that in the circumstances of Hong Kong, if we are to keep the enormous gains in public
honesty achieved since 1972, a body such as the Independent Commission is essential and
must be kept at full strength and at full pitch for many years to come.
108. The attitude to corruption of both public service and public has completely changed;
the acceptance of corruption as the norm has gone, as have the massive syndicates and
massive pay-offs of the past. But we certainly still have some corruption at most levels in
both public and private sectors and constant vigilance will be necessary to weed it out and
prevent it poisoning our society again. Education and prevention measures have a large part
to play, but neither will get far without the deterrent of a first class, large, operational unit
able to detect and charge the corrupt. And this we have.
109. It is symptomatic of the changed attitude to corruption how well the working
relationship between the I.C.A.C. and Government departments has developed; a large
number of reports now reaching the Commission are from departments and particularly
from the Police, and the operational co-operation that has been developed with the Police is
good. And this is how it should be.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981 27
Royal Hong Kong Police Force
110. The Royal Hong Kong Police Force has continued about its business of law
enforcement and has shouldered the additional burdens imposed by illegal immigration. It
has performed these tasks well, often with all too little public recognition of its
achievements.
111. Recruitment has held up well; the overwhelming majority of new constables have
Form V education, thus a much larger proportion are able to gain promotion to inspector―
75 were so promoted last year. At the same time more men at matriculation or degree level
are being attracted into the inspectorate.
112. Overall crime has been held, and robbery has been reduced from 30 reports a day in
1979 to 24 today. But the disturbing increase in the use of fire-arms or imitation fire-arms
has continued, and the Police have fought some brave actions with armed robbers. On the
other hand due to police crime prevention measures and some elementary arrangements for
self-protection bank and goldsmith robberies have decreased.
113. 10% of arrests were found to be recent immigrants, mostly illegal immigrants, as
were over 62% of those arrested for armed robbery. The public should not be alarmed by
these figures into believing that all immigrants are criminals. Of course these figures relate
only to a tiny minority. Nevertheless we must face the fact that we have now such a
minority unable either to integrate in Guangdong or assimilate in Hong Kong. I should hope
that this is a transitional phenomenon but certainly it needs very careful watching.
114. The increase in juvenile crime which began in 1979 continues. The figures are small
by international standards but we ignore the trend at our peril. A report made under the
aegis of the Fight Violent Crime Committee stressed, amongst other things, disappointment
in school and lack of supervised recreation as factors in juvenile crime. I have described
what is being done to improve remedial teaching, counselling, and social welfare services
in schools, as well as to adapt the curricula to less academically minded pupils. But
immediate steps are being taken to enable the Police, through the Junior Police Call to make
as they are anxious to do, a greater direct contribution to pointing young people in the right
direction, and establishing from the start an easy relationship with the Police. Junior Police
Call already numbers 270 000 members but many are inactive. To make much fuller use of
this potential a three-year programme has been drawn up which includes the provision of a
J.P.C. clubhouse in each Police Division, the setting up of 400 J.P.C. clubs in secondary
schools, and the provision of more funds to finance J.P.C. activities.
115. The Police Force, with the assistance of Home Office Inspectors, has put a great
deal of effort and thought into planning better housekeeping and welfare for its men and
better deployment of its resources. The housekeeping and welfare include a five-year
building programme covering a wide variety of projects from new police stations and a new
H.Q. at Wan Chai and four new
28 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981
marine bases for the expanding fleet, to new clubhouses at Boundary Street and Causeway
Bay, fitness rooms in Divisional Stations, and 4 000 more married quarters for Junior
Police Officers. In our concern to expand and adapt the Force to meet the needs of modern
Hong Kong, I am sure that we have paid too little attention to the working and living
conditions of members of the Force, and there is now a substantial backlog to be tackled.
116. The tendency of the Police Force’s plans for redeployment is towards devolution of
initiative responsibility and administration to Divisions and Districts, and this will include
the C.I.D. A series of reviews and experiments is now being undertaken. A review is also
being undertaken of the requirements of the Marine Police whose fleet of 52 existing
vessels will be increased by 24 and largely replaced over the next ten years.
117. To sum up I believe the Police Force is responding effectively and imaginatively to
the new conditions and new spread of population in Hong Kong, as well as to the new types
of crime that confront it.
118. Subject to the approval of Executive Council, amendments will be introduced to the
Societies Ordinance and the Police Force Ordinance.
Prisons Department
119. The year has not been an easy one for the Prisons Department. In addition to what
might be described as extra-curricular duties connected with Vietnamese refugees and
illegal immigrants, there has been a slight 3.4% increase in the penal population, the total
muster now standing at about 7 000. The problems of these increased demands have been
compounded by staff shortage with vacancies running at 12% in the officer grades and 15%
in the rank and file.
120. Nevertheless high standards are being maintained. In detention centres 94.6% of
inmates have not been reconvicted in the twelve months following release. Similarly the
extension in May last year to other young offenders of statutory supervision for up to
twelve months following discharge has proved most encouraging. The prison industries
have also successfully continued to expand and diversify.
121. A comprehensive review of our prisons legislation is in train. Proposals are being
put to Executive Council for a number of amendments to the Prison rules to bring them in
line with modern penal practice and a Bill to amend the Prisons Ordinance will be
submitted to this Council during this session.
The Garrison
122. When I spoke about the Garrison last year we were on the point of entering into
negotiations with the Ministry of Defence over a new Defence Costs Agreement. After
some tough but fair bargaining, a new Agreement was reached. It came into effect on 1
April 1981, and is to run for seven years.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981 29
123. In the course of 1978 and 79 it became clear that the Garrison was over-stretched
and that the reduction in 1976 had gone too far. It has therefore been agreed that we should
have an extra battalion and that it should, at least initially, be a Gurkha unit. It will be in
position by next January, bringing the infantry strength of the Garrison to five battalions.
124. The effective life of the five patrol craft of the Royal Navy is ending. Their
replacements have been ordered and should be operating by 1984.
125. Over the last three years the Garrison has made a tremendous contribution to
holding the line against the waves of illegal immigrants. Although the number of
immigrants has been much reduced, the Garrison must continue to maintain a considerable
presence on the border, on the non-urban coast line, and at sea.
126. Its task on the border has been assisted by a new fence, floodlit at night, and
overseen by observation platforms. This has been completed over the 22 kilometres from
Sha Tau Kok to the Mai Po Marshes.
127. In the technical sphere a modernized and comprehensive system of communications
is being planned by specialist officers of the Royal Navy and the Police and should give us
by 1983 a completely new, reliable and efficient and integrated radio network. Linked with
this are improvements in the coverage of Hong Kong waters by land and ship based radar.
128. From all this you will realize that we are determined to maintain and improve our
guard against illegal immigration.
LABOUR
Employment Conditions and Labour Relations
129. I now turn to the very different subject of labour conditions and relations. During
the last session, the Employment Ordinance was amended to widen its coverage to protect
more non-manual employees and to provide paid maternity leave. Drafting instructions for
the provision of improved sick leave entitlement and a death grant which I have described
earlier are being prepared and should come before Members this session. Consideration will
also be given to improving the conditions governing the grant of severance pay.
130. Further amendments to the Employee’s Compensation Ordinance covering the
introduction of compulsory insurance, the establishment of a more effective machinery for
assessing compensation, and measures to expedite settlement of compensation claims, will
be introduced into this Council this session.
131. 47 International Labour Conventions have now been applied in full or with
modifications in Hong Kong. This represents an increase of four over last year. In addition,
improvements in the application of five conventions have been made.
30 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981
Industrial Health and Safety
132. A consultant in occupational health has been appointed to head the Industrial Health
Division and to expand occupational health services. It is primarily the duty of employers to
provide adequate medical, nursing and technical staff to deal with health hazards in the
workplace. But the Division will supervise and advise on what is being done by employers.
133. A Pneumoconiosis (Compensation) Fund Board has now been set up and has begun
to make payments to workers found to be suffering from silicosis. Screening services for
the early detection of silicosis and asbestosis are now available to workers.
134. The penalties provided in the five most important sets of safety regulations under
the Factories and Industrial Undertakings Ordinance have been increased substantially.
Similar increases will be made in the remaining 14 sets of regulations this session.
135. Further regulations on the safe use of electricity, protection of workers’ hearing and
the employment of safety officers and safety supervisors in hazardous industries will be
made shortly.
136. The Industrial Safety Training Centre has been conducting a great variety of training
courses, and a one-year evening course for safety officers has been organized in
conjunction with the Polytechnic.
137. Industrial safety has been and will continue to be promoted by the Factory
Inspectorate and through an ambitious and imaginative publicity programme. Nevertheless,
considering how intractable the problem is, I am attracted by Sir S. Y. CHUNG’s suggestion
of a Council for Occuptional Safety to add impetus to our efforts, and it is being studied
carefully.
THE PUBLIC SERVICE
138. Your Government has continued to put a great deal of effort into building an
effective, committed and well trained Public Service, and to improving conditions and staff
relations in it. In this a key part has been played by the new and independent Commission
on Civil Service Salaries and Conditions of Service under the successive and very able
Chairmanships of Sir Y.K. KAN and Sir S. Y. CHUNG. Its work is both hard and painstaking
and it is steadily rationalizing the structure and salary levels of the Service.
139. Last year, I mentioned proposals for a home purchase scheme for public servants as
an alternative option to rent allowances. Details of the Scheme have now been announced
and it will be implemented before the end of the year. It is a new departure and we must see
how it works out in practice under present financial circumstances. But I am convinced that
the scheme is right in principle.
140. In March, the Civil Servants Finance Advisory Office was established to deal with
the long-standing problem of indebtedness in the public service. In the first six months of
its operation, over 3 000 applications were received and over
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981 31
$38.5 million worth of loans were recommended by the Office to the participating banks for
financing. The object of this scheme is to free civil servants from the clutches of loansharks with obvious benefit for themselves, their families and the public service.
141. Honourable Members will have noted the recurrent theme in this address of shortage
of technical and professional manpower. This is a serious problem and your Government is
now developing long-term manpower planned in conjunction with the Universities and
Polytechnic in order to better meet requirements. At the same time, new arrangements have
been introduced for extensions of service to be granted after the age of 55 to ensure that
Government does not deprive itself of the contribution that efficient and experienced
officers, especially those in senior positions, can make.
CLEAN HONG KONG CAMPAIGN
142. Last year I mentioned that a territory-wide campaign to make Hong Kong cleaner
again would begin this month. It will supplement the blitz in 1972 which successfully broke
the back of a very long-standing problem in the Urban Area. It will include the New
Territories and Country Parks. It will start on the 25th and will be divided into phases
dealing with six different areas, and will continue up to December next year.
143. In preparation the departments concerned have already been strengthened with both
staff and vehicles. For instance the New Territories Services Department will spend $42
million this year on cleansing vehicles most of which are now in service. Harbour cleansing,
and rubbish collection in housing estates, and temporary housing and cottage areas, and in
the country parks and along highways have all been stepped up.
144. In this preparatory period many black spots have been cleared and refuse collection
points improved, and 100 more collection points will be constructed during the campaign. I
am sure that those on the operational side are on their toes. It is now up to the Clean Hong
Kong Executive Committee and the Clean Hong Kong Campaign New Territories Advisory
Committee and the many district committees they have set up to encourage the public to
return to the public spirited rectitude of 1972 and 1973. I am sure the response of the vast
majority will be excellent. But there are bound to be some who will be careless and
thoughtless, and I appeal to the courts to bring home to those who commit litter offences
that they must mend their ways.
DISTRICT ADMINISTRATION
145. I think we all attach great importance to the new form of administration and public
participation now being created in each District. Indeed without it I do not see how the
plans for developing, spreading out and providing for the needs of Hong Kong that I have
described can be carried through effectively and in accordance with the wishes of residents.
32 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981
146. In each district, whether in the New Territories or the Urban Area, the scheme
stands on two legs. Firstly there is a District Management Committee comprised of
responsible officials to oversee and co-ordinate the activities of Government departments
within a district, and where necessary arrange their modification to meet the district needs.
Secondly there will be a District Board of appointed and elected unofficials plus the senior
officials of the Management Committee. Urban Councillors and Rural Committee
Chairmen will have seats provided for them. The Board speaks for the District and advises
the Management Committee, and if necessary the Secretary for Home Affairs or the New
Territories, on how its needs should be met. The scheme is already operating in all New
Territories Districts, albeit so far without an elected element. Management committees have
already been established in all urban districts and the process of establishing District
Boards is going well and will be completed by next March.
147. The scheme is proving a significant success even on its present basis. But interest
now focuses on the first set of elections which will be in New Territories Districts only next
March and for which registration of voters is now taking place. The necessary legislation
was passed in July this year to provide for elections to both the District Boards and the
Urban Council based on constituencies and on a new broad franchise. As this is something
new to Hong Kong, it is the Government’s duty to ensure the public understand the scheme
and realize the need for local public involvement in District Administration, and understand
how they can register and vote. So far in the New Territories, I understand that over 90 000
applications for registration have been received. Registration will take place in the City
Districts in March and April next year and elections will be held in September.
148. The reform follows an evolution that has been taking place over a period of years.
So though the form is entirely new to Hong Kong it is not a step in the dark, nor does it
circumscribe the essential powers of the Central Government or of this Council, the Urban
Council or the traditional role of the Heung Yee Kuk. Nevertheless this partnership in
District Administration will produce a new and much sharper focus on the needs of each
district, and will do so in the light of the views of the representatives of each district. It
should make Government less faceless, more accessible and more responsive. It will also
provide a new opportunity to play a part in administration to a large number of people.
THE ARTS AND RECREATION
149. The arts, sport and recreation, and the organized use of leisure all contribute to the
building of complete and cohesive communities. These have made extraordinary progress
under the encouragement of the Urban Council, the Government, the Royal Hong Kong
Jockey Club, the Council for Recreation and Sports, the Country Parks Authority, and many
other bodies, and of course with the enthusiastic support of the public for which these
developments clearly fill a very long-felt need. In the artistic field development of
performing
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981 33
arts has far out-stripped existing capacity for practice, instruction, storage and
administration. So the proposal of the Royal Hong Kong Jockey Club to build a new
Academy of the Performing Arts is most timely. It is a happy co-incidence that a site is
available next to the Arts Centre, now the subject of a feasibility study.
UNITED KINGDOM
150. This year by unfortunate co-incidence there were one or two developments in the
U.K. that were disagreeable to Hong Kong. For instance the increase in university fees and
the Nationality Bill still before Parliament. Your Government put up a stiff fight, and
though it had no success on university fees it had some over the Nationality Bill. But the
point I wish to make now is that some here affected to see these developments as part of a
deliberate policy of disengagement by H.M.G. I can only say that these events were
prompted by purely U.K. considerations totally unconnected with Hong Kong, that their
timing was pure co-incidence, and that most satisfactory assurances of continued U.K.
support for Hong Kong were immediately given. Indeed it is ironic that such intention
should have been suspected of a U.K. Government whose members have been so helpful to
Hong Kong and frequently spoken so warmly of it. I believe that in recent years there has
been a much wider understanding in Parliament of Hong Kong, its problems and its
achievements, and this has been due in no small measure not only to the vigour of
successive Hong Kong Commissioners but also to the work of the all-party Parliamentary
group under the Chairmanship of Sir Paul Bryan.
SINO-BRITISH CO-OPERATION
151. Sino-British relations continue to be excellent in themselves and over Hong Kong.
In Hong Kong the relations of our officials with those of the Central Government and the
Guangdong Provincial Government are friendly, practical and constructive. I note with
satisfaction the steady development of economic co-operation between agencies of the
Chinese Government and Hong Kong businessmen in Hong Kong, in Guangdong and in
other parts of China. I am convinced that at this time the best contribution we can make to
our own future is the fostering of the growing economic links that exist with our neighbour.
These are complementary to our very large economic interests in other parts of the world.
CONCLUSION
152. And so I come to the end of this review of your Government’s activities and
proposals. They encompass continuation of the steady transformation of Hong Kong. In this
aim we must persist if we are to develop as a technically advanced, valued, and above all,
respected, and I repeat, respected society.
153. What is called ‘the ugly face of capitalism’ was notably absent in the recession of
1974-75 and the subsequent recovery, and this was one of the reasons Hong Kong came
through it so well. Now when the economy as a whole
34 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL ― 7 October 1981
is doing comparatively well, and looks like continuing to do so, there are signs of this
lesson being forgotten by some. It is all very well to say that in a free economy one must
take the rough with the smooth; but those who take the rough are so seldom those who
enjoyed the smooth. Our economy depends on the development of sound industry, sound
communications, and sound financial institutions, based on a decently housed society
whose elements observe mutual respect and restraint. So long as the ingenious and
admirably intense economic activity of Hong Kong concentrates on these productive
objectives, I am convinced that other medium and long term factors are very greatly in our
favour.