(1) INTRODUCTION
Honourable Members of the Legislative Council, it is an honour for me to preside over this,
the first meeting of the Legislative Council in its new Chamber. Not only has the membership
of the Council been substantially enlarged but, for the first time in Hong Kong's history, an
important part of its membership has been chosen by indirect election. The opening of the
1985/86 Session of the Council thus marks another step in the evolution of representative
government in Hong Kong.
2. This evolution has been in progress for some time. The Urban Council has had elected
members for many years. In 1983, the number of elected members was increased to 15, the
franchise was greatly extended, and members were elected for the first time from district
constituencies. District Boards first had a proportion of their membership elected in 1982; the
number of elected District Board members was substantially increased earlier this year.
Elections for the new Regional Council will be held in March next year. Throughout this
process, the Government has looked for progress combined with stability. It will continue to
do so. In this fast developing world, all societies are subject to change; and their institutions
must adapt to meet the changing requirements of the societies which established them. At the
same time, full weight must be given to the need for stability. Hong Kong is successful
economically and socially because it is a stable society. Progress and stability must go hand in
hand.
3. As regards the functioning of the Council, I am confident that honourable Members,
whether elected by electoral colleges or by functional constituencies, whether appointed or
official, will recognise that, when in this Chamber, we are all part of one Council. Each
Member may have his or her individual allegiance, but all of us have a common responsibility
to the community as a whole. The policies we endorse and the legislation we shall pass will
affect the daily lives, not only of those sectors of the community which individual Members
may represent, but of everyone in Hong Kong. While I expect issues to be vigorously debated
in this Chamber, it will be incumbent on us all never to lose sight of that common
responsibility.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 30 October 1985 11
4. This new Council will soon no doubt adopt its own distinctive working style. In doing so,
it inherits a successful pattern on which to build. Over the years, Council members have built
up a remarkable record as spokesmen for the community on vital issues. They have
scrutinised and passed an impressive body of law, which has provided the framework within
which Hong Kong has been able to grow into the successful society it is today. That society
has evolved as a result of a constant consultative process between the Government, the
legislature and the community. This consultative process has been a cardinal element in Hong
Kong's success. The Government firmly intends that it should be continued and strengthened.
5. We shall need to monitor the functioning of our new arrangements over the next 18
months, before we take stock again in the 1987 review. The reforms of 1985 are based on
institutions which have served Hong Kong well; they preserve the best features of these
institutions. It is important that Hong Kong should build a government structure at the central
level which is appropriate to its own needs and in harmony with its own traditions. The 1987
review will need to address a number of issues: whether there should be further changes in the
composition of the Council; whether there should be direct elections; what should be the
relationship between the Executive and Legislative Councils; and other matters. I have no
doubt that, even before the review, there will be much public discussion on these subjects.
(2) STRUCTURE AND MACHINERY OF GOVERNMENT
6. Before turning to other topics, I wish to say a few words about the structure and
machinery of government in the territory as a whole.
(a) Structure
7. 1985 has seen major progress in the District Boards. At elections on 7 March, the
number of board members directly elected was increased from 132 to 237; in addition, 132
members have been appointed from a wide cross-section of the community. This composition
enhances the representative nature of the boards and ensures continuity of proven experience.
The reconstituted boards have demonstrated their effectiveness in improving the environment
of their districts, and in reflecting the views of local residents on local issues.
8. The Provisional Regional Council, constituted on 1 April this year to prepare for the
establishment of the full Regional Council on 1 April 1986, has set about its task with vigour.
Like its urban counterpart, the new council will be financially autonomous and will derive
most of its revenue from the rates. It will be responsible for all aspects of environmental
health, recreation and culture, outside the main urban area. I am confident that the Regional
Council will achieve the same success as the long-established Urban Council in carrying out
this important work.
12 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 30 October 1985
9. Many of the members of the Regional Council, as of the Urban Council, will be directly
elected. The area which the Regional Council will serve comprises geographically separate
communities ranging from major new towns to the older market towns, villages and islands.
In recognition of this fact, the Council will have nine members elected by District Boards and
three ex-officio members from the Heung Yee Kuk. This membership will enable the
Regional Council to formulate policies which give due weight to the needs and interests of the
area as a whole, and of its component parts.
10. At the apex of the three levels of government is the Legislative Council in its new format.
In constructing this framework, we have taken great care to establish close links between the
three levels. Urban Council members sit on the urban District Boards. There will be regional
District Board members on the Regional Council. Members of District Boards and of both
second level councils sit in this Chamber. To complete the pattern, there are representatives
here of all the major functional organisations and sectors of our society. The system as a
whole is thus both representative and closely knit.
(b) Machinery of Government
(i) Complaints and the redress of grievances
11. Any just society should provide for those who seek the redress of grievances, or who
wish to complain about the actions of government. departments and agencies. Hong Kong has
a very wide range of institutions and procedures for this purpose. Immediate avenues open to
the aggrieved citizen include District Offices, District Board members, the ward offices of
members of the Urban and Regional Councils, the Independent Commission Against
Corruption, and the Office of Unofficial Members of the Executive and Legislative Councils.
In addition, many of our laws provide for formal appeals to a wide variety of authorities,
boards and tribunals; others provide for the right of appeal to the Governor or the Governor in
Council against administrative decisions; representations on matters of a public or private
nature may be made to the Governor; and beyond that, petitions may be addressed to the
Secretary of State and to Her Majesty the Queen.
12. In view of the new composition of the Legislative Council and the development of more
representative government, the efficacy of existing avenues of redress has been under review
by Unofficial Members of the Executive and Legislative Councils and by the Government.
More work remains to be done; but by the end of this year, a consultative document should be
ready for publication. It will outline the present situation, and set out options for building on
present systems. It will include the possibility of some sort of institution to enquire, on an
independent basis, into complaints alleging maladministration by government departments.
The Government intends wide public consultation on any possible changes, so that the views
of the
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 30 October 1985 13
community, both on the principles and the details of any proposals, can be fully taken into
account. If there is general support for change, draft legislation should be ready for
submission to this Council before the end of this session.
13. I make on this subject one final, important point: Unofficial Members of the Executive
and Legislative Councils have for many years given much time and effort to dealing with
complaints by the public, ranging from high policy to the smallest of matters affecting the
livelihood or interests of an individual. The large number of people who have made
representations to them over the years provides proof of public confidence in them. That
function is crucial. It will continue, unimpaired by the introduction of any new institution. If
such an institution is created, it is likely to be a supplement to existing channels for the
redress of grievances, rather than a replacement.
(ii) Chinese version of the statute law of Hong Kong
14. All major decisions in our system of government are taken within, or are incorporated
into, our statutes and ordinances. It is right that laws should be available in the language of
the majority of the population. The Executive Council, in July this year, decided that an
authentic Chinese version of the statute law of Hong Kong should be produced. Following
that decision, the selection and training of staff have begun, and it is hoped that the first piece
of new legislation in both languages will be produced in the 1986-87 session. It is also the
Government's intention to make a start, in due course, on producing an authentic Chinese
version of the existing statute law.
(3) ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL SITUATION
15. I shall speak now briefly on the economic and financial situation.
(a) State of the economy and prospects
16. As is the case in many parts of the world, the growth of our economy so far this year has
been slower than expected. Nevertheless, a growth rate of 4.5 per cent to 5 per cent for Gross
Domestic Product in 1985 is likely. Even though this is lower than we had hoped, it is still
satisfactory. While domestic exports to the traditional markets have declined, exports to China
have continued to record substantial growth. China has become the second largest market for
our domestic exports. Re-exports have shown strong growth. As a result, total exports for
1985 are expected to grow by 11 per cent.
17. The property market has shown signs of revival. This reflects the return of confidence in
Hong Kong and the fact that rentals and prices are now at more realistic levels.
18. Unemployment and underemployment figures have remained stable. In the three months
June to August, the unemployment rate was 3.3 per cent and the underemployment rate was
1.4 per cent, indicating that the labour force is effectively fully employed.
14 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 30 October 1985
19. The rate of inflation has remained relatively low, at about 3.8 per cent during the 12
months to September this year. This has been due in part to moderate rates of inflation in
those countries which are our major trading partners, to the easing of world commodity prices,
and to the relative strength of the Hong Kong dollar. There have been occasions when the link
with the U.S. dollar has come under pressure, but the system has held up well. There are no
plans to change it.
20. Looking ahead to 1986, our economy remains dependent on trade and hence vulnerable
to external forces outside Hong Kong's control. Consumer demand in our export markets and
the willingness of other governments to allow consumers freedom of choice are clearly
important factors. The most immediate threat to the performance of our economy lies in calls
for further protectionist measures, in particular in the United States.
(b) Management of the public finances
21. As regards the public finances, a revival of activity in the property market has brought
better than expected results from land sales. These, together with improved yields from
earnings and profits tax, should result in total revenue for the year being higher than originally
estimated. Expenditure on general revenue account is also likely to be higher than estimated,
as a result of $1.5 billion being injected as additional equity into the Mass Transit Railway
Corporation. The net effect at the end of the year will be a smaller deficit than was originally
forecast. The return to a balanced budget is now a realistic expectation.
22. Expenditure on capital works has been slower than originally forecast. As a result, the
size of the public sector as a proportion of Gross Domestic Product should decline to below
16 per cent in the financial year 1985-86.
23. Both the Government and the business community remain in full agreement on the need
for a simple and equitable taxation system. The levels are set carefully so as to provide for
Hong Kong's essential fiscal needs, but without acting as a disincentive to enterprise. We shall
not depart from that policy, which is important to the economic health of Hong Kong. There
are, however, loopholes in our system which those with access to sophisticated financial
devices can exploit. They are thus able, within the law, to avoid paying the taxes which they
were meant to pay; and the burden of that unpaid tax then falls on others.
24. Proposed amendments to the Inland Revenue Ordinance, designed to close the most
readily exploitable of the loopholes, have recently been examined by the Ad Hoc Panel of
Unofficial Members of the Executive and Legislative Councils. The group has consulted
widely with the professions and with the public. I am confident, as a result, that wellconsidered proposals will be introduced into the Legislative Council during this session.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 30 October 1985 15
(c) Regulation of financial and commercial sectors
25. An important task for the Government is to maintain confidence both internationally and
locally in Hong Kong as a financial centre. This requires that we should seek to improve the
legal and institutional framework in which the financial and allied services industries operate.
There have been a number of recent developments in this field.
26. A review of our system of supervisory control over banking operations is nearing
completion. There has been wide consultation with the financial community, and proposals
for improvement will be put to the Executive Council as soon as possible. They will seek to
provide a greater measure of protection to depositors―to ensure sound business practice
among financial institutions ― while leaving full room for financial and commercial
enterprise.
27. Events of recent years, both here and in other major financial centres, indicate that the
mere logging of technical compliance with statutory requirements is not enough to ensure that
financial institutions are prudently managed. No system of prudential supervision can prevent
all irregularities, particularly where there is fraud. But the aim of the proposed measures will
be to assist in the timely identification of bad, imprudent or fraudulent management, which
can threaten the health and reputation of the system as a whole.
28. The Standing Committee on Company Law Reform, which first met in May 1984, has
made a number of recommendations to improve the operation of the Companies and
Securities Ordinances. These recommendations are now being considered with a view to
introducing legislation to implement them. The Standing Committee has recently published a
report on disclosure of beneficial interests in shareholdings and dealings in shares on a
significant scale. This report recommends the introduction of legislation to provide for a
greater degree of disclosure of the true ownership of public companies listed on the Stock
Exchange. This would benefit shareholders, company management, the securities industry
and regulatory authorities. This too will be carefully considered by the Government.
29. The Stock Exchanges Unification (Amendment) Ordinance and the Securities
(Amendment) Ordinance, enacted in August, pave the way for unification of the four stock
exchanges. They introduce new membership criteria, as well as more stringent financial
requirements to help to ensure the financial viability of dealers. New statutory stock exchange
listing rules, and amendments to the compensation scheme set up under the Securities
Ordinance to provide greater protection for the investing public, are now being prepared. The
Unified Exchange is expected to commence operation in 1986.
30. A review of the Commodities Trading Ordinance, necessitated by the rapidly changing
character of the futures industry, is also under way. It too seeks to improve the existing
regulatory framework and afford greater
16 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 30 October 1985
protection to investors. The Executive Council, on the recommendation of the Securities and
Commodities Trading Commissions, has approved trading in Hang Seng Index futures
contracts. The Futures Exchange is expected to introduce this type of contract shortly.
31. Consumer protection is a matter of much concern both to the public and the Government.
The last session of this Council saw the introduction of legislation to regulate the business
transactions of money changers and to provide for the registration of travel agents. In recent
months, the activities of an unscrupulous minority of retailers have received widespread
publicity. Measures have already been taken to strengthen enforcement under existing
legislation, and new measures to improve the law are in preparation.
(d) Trade and industry
32. I turn now to trade and industry. These are the foundation of our economy. The recent
growth in protectionist sentiment in the United States poses a serious threat to our economic
interests. The United States customs regulations, prescribing country of origin requirements
for Multi-Fibre Arrangement textile products, were imposed in April this year. They made no
concessions on knitwear, despite Hong Kong's strong protests and a ruling by the Textiles
Surveillance Body in Hong Kong's favour. The knitwear industry, as a result, has had to make
major, costly investments, but has yet to adjust fully to the new requirements.
33. In more recent months, the Thurmond/Jenkins Bill has posed an even more serious threat
to Hong Kong. If passed into law, the Bill will seriously undermine not only world trade in
textiles, but the very principles on which the Multi-Fibre Arrangement and the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade are based. Credit may be given deservedly to the
Government, to industry, and to trade and industry organisations, in particular the Trade
Development Council, for their concerted efforts in lobbying against the Bill. We shall not
relax our efforts to counteract all protectionist moves which threaten our livelihood. We
applaud the stand taken by the United States Administration against protectionism.
34. The current Multi-Fibre Arrangement will expire in July 1986, and negotiations on its
future have started. The Government will continue to work closely with other developing,
textile-exporting countries to promote the liberalisation of trade in textiles and clothing.
35. An exhibition and conference centre of the highest international standard is now being
built by the Trade Development Council on a site at Wanchai reclamation, and is scheduled
for completion in 1988. I congratulate the Trade Development Council for so readily and
enthusiastically taking on this exciting project.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 30 October 1985 17
36. On the industrial front, reflecting confidence in Hong Kong, there has been a rise in
investment in new plant and machinery during the first half of this year; this should help us to
maintain an edge over our competitors. During the last few months, the take-up of new leases
at our industrial estates has accelerated.
(4) IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SINO-BRITISH JOINT DECLARATION
37. I shall now turn to matters which relate specifically to the implementation of the SinoBritish Joint Declaration.
(a) General
38. When I addressed this Council last year, the Sino-British Joint Declaration on the
question of Hong Kong had just been initialled and published as a draft agreement, and the
Assessment Office had begun its task of gauging public reaction to it. There followed debates
on the draft agreement, both in this Council and in the United Kingdom Parliament.
Subsequently, the Joint Declaration was signed by the British Prime Minister and the Chinese
Premier on 19 December 1984, and entered into force on 27 May 1985 upon ratification by
the two Governments. It has been registered by both Governments at the United Nations, thus
confirming its status as a binding international instrument.
(b) Joint Liaison Group
39. The Joint Liaison Group held its first meeting in July in London. Both sides agreed on
the importance of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to Hong Kong's economic
development, and on arrangements for Hong Kong to continue as a member of the Asian
Development Bank after 1997. The group will meet again in Peking towards the end of
November. By its very nature, the Joint Liaison Group is not a body that will make a string of
momentous decisions at each meeting. But it will, between now and the year 2000, need to
discuss a wide range of matters related to the implementation of the Joint Declaration. The
encouraging start that the group has made augurs well for the ability of the two sides to cooperate in this important work.
(c) Land Commission
40. The Land Commission too has set about its work quickly and effectively, and in a spirit
of co-operation between the two sides. It has reached agreement on a range of legal
documents for use in land transactions, and on the land disposal programme for the remainder
of the current financial year. In September and earlier this month, the first public auctions of
government land since the entry into force of the Joint Declaration were successfully held,
and
18 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 30 October 1985
seven lots of land were sold for terms running up to 2047. All concerned can be confident that
land will continue to be made available to meet Hong Kong's development requirements.
(d) Nationality and passports
41. Of considerable public interest are the arrangements for the introduction of British
National (Overseas) status and the issue of British National (Overseas) passports. Any person,
who is a British Dependent Territories citizen by virtue of a connection with Hong Kong, may
apply for a British National (Overseas) passport before 1997, and will be able to use the
passport after that date. As has already been announced, arrangements are being made for
these passports to be issued with effect from 1 July 1987. This will enable the present practice
of issuing passports for a ten-year validity period to continue without interruption. It will also
give maximum time to third countries to grow accustomed to the new passports. The format
of the British National (Overseas) passport will be such that it is readily identifiable as a
document issued under the authority of the British Government. The British Government has
undertaken to do its utmost to obtain international recognition of that passport, and there are
already encouraging signs that this will be accorded. The British Government has also
announced that it will make provision for the children of former Hong Kong British
Dependent Territories citizens, and for their grandchildren, to acquire British Overseas
citizenship, if they would otherwise be stateless.
42. In February this year, during the committee stage of the Hong Kong Bill in the House of
Commons, the Minister of State said that the British Government would discuss with the
Chinese authorities the wording of a statement to be included in the British National
(Overseas) passport to satisfy immigration officials in third countries that an individual has
the right of abode in Hong Kong. I am pleased to report that these discussions are proceeding.
43. A draft Order in Council on British National (Overseas) status has recently been
published. I urge all those concerned to put forward their views on it, so that these can be
taken into account when it is debated in this Council and in Parliament.
(e) Hong Kong Register of Shipping
44. The Joint Declaration provides that the future Hong Kong Special Administrative Region
shall be authorised to continue to maintain a shipping register and to issue related certificates
under its own legislation. The Government published in May its initial thinking for a new
register and asked for public comment; there has been a constructive response from the
shipping industry. Over the next few months it should be possible to see more clearly the
shape of Hong Kong's future policy in this field.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 30 October 1985 19
(f) Basic law
45. The Joint Declaration records the basic policies of the People's Republic of China
regarding Hong Kong. Annex I to the Joint Declaration elaborates these policies, which will
be stipulated in a Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's
Republic of China, to be passed by the National People's Congress.
46. Both the British Government and the Government of China are firmly committed to
maintaining the prosperity and stability of Hong Kong and to ensuring a smooth transition in
1997. Both the British Government, which will remain responsible for the administration of
Hong Kong up to 1997, and the Chinese Government, which is responsible for drafting the
Basic Law, have as their starting point the Joint Declaration, which sets out in Annex I the
general principles of the structure of government for the future. Both Governments have
pledged themselves to consult extensively with the people of Hong Kong. I am sure that the
two Governments will at all times be alive to the concerns and the views of the other, as well
as of the views of the people of Hong Kong. I am also confident that, on these foundations, a
framework of enduring institutions can be constructed, which will maintain confidence in
Hong Kong and enable a smooth transfer of government in 1997.
(g) Annual report to Parliament
47. In February this year, as a result of representations from all parties, Her Majesty's
Government agreed to produce an annual report on Hong Kong, and to lay it before the
British Parliament. The purpose of the report is to keep Parliament informed on a regular
basis of developments in Hong Kong during the period leading up to 1997. It will thus
demonstrate the continuing interest of the British Parliament in the fortunes and progress of
Hong Kong. The first report is expected to be published as a White Paper and laid before the
British Parliament later this year. The report will be laid also before this Council.
(5) SOCIAL PROGRAMME AREAS
48. I shall turn now to our social programmes.
(a) Education
49. Our community has always placed great value on education. This year, 17 per cent of
total public expenditure is devoted to it; this is more than is spent on any other single area of
government activity. The Government remains committed to continuous improvement in
educational opportunities and in the quality of education.
(i) Extension of education opportunities
50. Since 1978, the cornerstone of our education policy has been nine years of universal, free
and compulsory education. The Government is already committed to improve on this.
Following the Education Commission's advice,
20 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 30 October 1985
we have set ourselves the target of providing by 1991 enough subsidised places, in Forms IV
and V in secondary schools, and in one-year full-time craft courses in technical institutes and
training centres, to satisfy the demand for post-Form III education. This should permit the
phasing-out of the Junior Secondary Education Assessment System. To do this, we shall have
to build another 24 secondary schools as well as purchase places in Forms IV and V from
good private schools. With the opening of the new technical institutes at Tuen Mun and Sha
Tin in the coming year, overall student numbers in technical institutes will rise from 45 500 to
over 52 000. This represents some 2 700 more students at the technician level, and nearly 3
900 more students engaged in craft-level courses.
(ii) Language in education
51. The Education Commission has recommended that Hong Kong should educate its
younger generation to be more competent in both Chinese and English. Hong Kong's position
as an important industrial, commercial and financial centre, now and in the future, requires
our best efforts to ensure that our children can use both languages with ease. This means
improved teacher education; more teachers, and more equipment.
52. The language of teaching has been under review, as well as the teaching of language.
Those secondary schools which teach in English will be asked to consider whether they wish
to make greater use of Chinese. The availability of suitable textbooks will be an important
factor for secondary schools contemplating such a change. The Government intends to
establish a Chinese Textbooks Committee. Its purpose will be to ensure that sufficient
secondary school textbooks of good quality, written in Chinese, become available within the
next five years. More widespread use of Chinese is in no way intended to diminish the
importance of a high standard of English. Our objective, which we believe to be achievable, is
high standards in both.
(iii) Computer education
53. I spoke last year of the need to ensure that our young people develop a familiarity with
the use and operation of computers. Following the successful implementation of the
Computer Studies Pilot Scheme in 1982, the scheme has grown to cover, by last month, a
total of 210 government and government-aided secondary schools. It is intended that all aided
secondary schools should, if they so wish, include computer studies in their Form IV and
Form V curricula from September 1986. An essential part of this programme is the training of
more teachers. The Education Department provides in-service training courses for teachers
from schools taking part in the scheme; the two Universities and the Hong Kong Polytechnic
provide other training courses to increase the number of teachers qualified in computer
studies. Earlier this year, a capital grant of $4 million from the MacLehose Fund was
approved to set up a fully equipped Computer Education Centre. This will provide further
training for teachers involved in the use and application of computers.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 30 October 1985 21
(iv) Higher education
54. Another area under review is the availability of places for our students at universities and
polytechnics. The Joint Funding Scheme for Hong Kong students in Britain has become a
valued source of subsidised places in higher education, additional to the places which are
available locally. In 1984-85 there were over 1 300 successful applications for grants under
this scheme, the cost of which is shared equally with the British Government. In 1985-86, the
amount available for grants has increased slightly to £ 4 million.
55. First and foremost, however, we need to do more to provide places locally for our
students. We have 28 000 full-time and equivalent part-time students in our institutions of
higher learning, of whom some 13 000 are on degree courses. Until now, the target figure for
first-year places in first degree courses by 1994-95 has been just over 6 300. Present
indications are that this is not enough to meet either the requirements of our economy or the
aspirations of our students. The Government intends therefore to proceed with the planning of
a third University, and thereby increase the provision of first-year, first degree places to over
7 500. The University and Polytechnic Grants Committee has advised that, with a third
University, this should be possible within the 1990s. Much work needs to be done on this
project; the cost will be considerable; but the objective is clear, and I have no doubt that the
investment will show an ample return.
(b) Housing
56. This year will see record public housing production of over 48 000 flats, with the
Housing Authority exceeding its annual production target for the sixth successive year. The
authority continues steadily to improve the quality of its new housing as well as upgrading
and redeveloping existing stock. As anticipated last year, private sector production has
increased and is forecast to reach about 30 000 flats this calendar year, rising to about 33 000
units in 1986. About 18 000 flats are scheduled for completion next year under the Home
Ownership and Private Sector Participation Schemes. This is yet another record.
57. Meanwhile, the restructured squatter clearance programme, which I mentioned last year,
has started; and the rural housing programme continues to make steady progress, with a
project at Tui Min Hoi in Sai Kung due to be completed later this year, and projects at Mui
Wo on Lantau and at Sha Tau Kok scheduled to start next year.
58. Honourable Members will be aware that the public is being consulted on the level of
housing subsidy to public housing tenants. The Housing Authority will examine carefully all
public comments on the suggestions set out in its Green Paper, together with alternative ideas
which come forward, before deciding whether any recommendations should be made to the
Executive Council.
22 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 30 October 1985
(c) Social welfare
59. Last year, I spoke of the housing needs of the increasing number of elderly people in our
population. In July, the Housing Authority agreed to provide self-care hostels in public
housing estates for elderly people still enjoying good health. The authority plans to provide
hostels for some 2 000 people over the next six years. These will be in addition to the existing
quota of shared flats and housing units for single persons in public housing estates. These
arrangements will help the Social Welfare Department and welfare agencies in their task of
looking after those elderly people who are unable to care for themselves.
60. Residential institutions have long provided services catering for children and young
people who, because of family circumstances or their own behaviour, have to live away from
their families. In recent years, limited arrangements have been made to care for children
outside these institutions. A working group has recently been established to look into this area,
and to report to the Social Welfare Advisory Committee.
(d) Medical services
61. During the past year, the Government has undertaken to meet the cost of major
extensions to subvented hospitals. A capital subvention of $680 million will provide a 760-
bed extension for the United Christian Hospital by 1991, which will more than double its
present size. Another subvention of $224 million will provide for capacity at the Yan Chai
Hospital to increase from 150 to 700 beds by 1988. Funds have also been provided to allow
continuation of the phased expansion of the Pok Oi Hospital.
62. As part of a review of the management organisation of hospital services in Hong Kong,
consultants have been assessing the potential for better integration between government and
subvented hospitals; their report is expected before the end of the year.
(e) Environment
63. As I stated in my address last year, the Government is well aware of the need to protect
the environment in which we live and work. Proposals for enforceable controls on the
disposal of untreated animal wastes, which are the cause of some of the most severe pollution
problems, will soon be considered by District Boards and other interested parties. It is hoped
to introduce measures, together with the necessary legislation, during the present session.
Proposals to improve controls on air pollution will be submitted to the Executive Council
during the first half of next year. The nature and scale of noise problems are less easily
defined than most other pollution problems, and acceptable objective measurements of noise
are difficult to establish. It is, nevertheless, hoped to introduce a Noise Control Bill into the
Legislative Council before the end of the present session.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 30 October 1985 23
(f) Broadcasting
64. In August, the Broadcasting Review Board submitted its report on the future of
broadcasting in Hong Kong. The report, which was published last month, makes several
proposals. One of these, the turning of Radio Television Hong Kong into an independent
public broadcaster with guaranteed access to television prime time, has excited considerable
public comment. But there are many others, equally important and equally deserving of
discussion. They include the establishment of a new Broadcasting Authority; greater control
over commercial broadcasting; the prohibition of tobacco advertising on radio and television;
and the provision of a modern cable television distribution network. During the next three
months, public comment will be welcomed on all these recommendations. The Government
will take all views fully into account when drawing up proposals for the broadcasting policies
to be adopted after the expiry of the present licences in 1988. The decisions to be taken are
far-reaching. They will shape the future of television and broadcasting in Hong Kong for a
long time to come. They will therefore need to be soundly based and acceptable to the
community as a whole.
(6) DEVELOPMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE
65. I shall move on now to our development programme.
(a) Territorial development strategy
(i) Urban growth
66. Our strategy is aimed at sustaining long-term urban growth. In preparation for the early
1990s, detailed planning and engineering studies on new growth areas around the harbour are
now under way. Initially, reclamation will take place at Kellett Bay on the western shore of
Hong Kong Island to provide land for public housing; and at Hung Hom Bay to provide land
for expansion of the KCR terminal, for residential development, and for government and
institutional facilities much needed in this part of Kowloon.
(ii) New town development
67. Advance engineering work for the Tin Shui Wai new town is coming along well.
Formation work is due to begin next year to provide land to house 135 000 people. By 1995,
the population of the north-western New Territories, including Tuen Mun, will have risen to
over 700 000. To cater for the expected travel demands in this region, work on the Light Rail
Transit system will commence early next year; the system is expected to start running in
1988.
68. Major engineering works and public housing construction are also under way in Junk
Bay, and the first residents of the new town will move in by early 1987. The town will
accommodate up to 155 000 people by about 1994, and will be linked to East Kowloon by a
new road tunnel on which work will start next
24 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 30 October 1985
year. There is good progress also on the redevelopment of Sha Tau Kok, where priority is
being given to re-housing over 3 000 residents living in unsatisfactory accommodation.
69. The momentum of new town development in the New Territories is being reinforced by
large investment in transport infrastructure, about which I shall say more when I speak about
the road network.
(b) Land and building
70. The Government is concerned that the redevelopment of the older parts of our city
should proceed in parallel with new development. To this end, the Government intends to
establish a Land Development Corporation, and legislation for this purpose is being drafted.
When constituted, the Land Development Corporation will co-operate with private developers
and owners of run-down properties in the older urban areas to produce new housing. This will
be built to modern standards and equipped with a full range of commercial, community and
welfare facilities. The first project should get under way in the next 12 months; I am hopeful
that this initiative will give a strong impetus to the renovation of areas such as Western
District, Wanchai, Yaumatei and Mong Kok.
(c) Communications
71. The volume of shipping using Hong Kong's port facilities has continued to increase,
highlighting the need for the port development strategy study, to which I referred last year.
This is now reaching its conclusion. It is imperative that Hong Kong maintains its capacity to
handle promptly and effectively the cargoes which pass through our port. This study should
tell us just what facilities will be needed and where they should be.
72. As for more immediate needs at the container terminal, reclamation of Kwai Chung
Creek to provide 25 additional hectares of land is ahead of schedule, and will be completed by
early 1987. Negotiations are well advanced for the addition of an ambitious three-berth
terminal at Kwai Chung, with the reclamation of a further 29 hectares.
(d) Transport
(i) Road network
73. Improvements to the road network continued during the year. The completion of the
Island Eastern Corridor as far as Shau Kei Wan has greatly improved road communications
between the eastern part of Hong Kong Island and the remainder of the urban area. The
opening last month of the section of the New Territories Trunk Road from Sha Tin to Fan
Ling will bring substantial benefit to the North-East New Territories. Further road
improvements on which work will commence during the coming year include the construction
of the new tunnel link between Sha Tin and Tsuen Wan.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 30 October 1985 25
74. Earlier this year, it was decided that the Eastern Harbour Crossing should provide both
road and rail facilities. The road tunnel will alleviate congestion through the present Cross
Harbour Tunnel and will greatly assist the fulfilment of our territorial development strategy.
The additional Mass Transit Railway crossing will relieve pressure on the Nathan Road
section of the railway and bring other transport benefits. The Government is now negotiating
with several consortia which have submitted the most promising proposals for the
construction, operation and financing of the crossing. Construction is expected to commence
in early 1986 and will take about three and a half years to complete.
(ii) Cross-border links
75. During the year, new facilities designed to improve communications between Hong
Kong and the Shenzen Special Economic Zone were opened. They include the second bridge
at Man Kam To, the new bridge at Sha Tau Kok and a new footbridge at Lo Wu. Work has
also begun on the construction of the first stage of the Lok Ma Chau bridge; this is expected
to be completed in early 1988. These improvements to cross-border links will provide
sufficient capacity to cope with the expected growth of traffic into the next decade.
(iii) Traffic congestion
76. Experience has shown that the roads in busy urban areas cannot cope with unrestrained
traffic growth; such growth can result in severe and widespread congestion at a high
economic cost. Fiscal measures, introduced in May 1982, have reduced the number of private
cars on the road; but they impose a burden on all car owners regardless of whether they are
heavy users of congested roads. The measures, though so far effective, are a blunt instrument.
Other, more equitable and more efficient methods of tackling congestion must be considered,
so that we can obtain maximum economic benefit from our expensive road network.
Consultation on such measures, including the question of whether any form of electronic road
pricing should be introduced, and if so, where and when, is still in progress in the Transport
Advisory Committee.
77. There is increasing congestion at the northern entrance to the Lion Rock Tunnel. The
number of toll collection booths does not match the tunnel capacity. To remedy this, three
additional toll booths are being built; they should be operational by March next year. Other
measures are being investigated to improve traffic flow through the tunnel, including the
possibility of automatic toll collection. In addition, the feasibility of a road tunnel under Tate's
Cairn, linking Sha Tin with East Kowloon, is being closely examined.
(iv) Public transport
78. The opening of the Mass Transit Railway Island Line from Chai Wan to Admiralty has
increased patronage on the Mass Transit Railway by about 300 000 boardings a day. The
extension of this line to Sheung Wan, passing
26 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 30 October 1985
through Central, will be completed in the early summer of 1986. This is expected to lead to a
further increase in the number of passengers using the Island Line.
(7) LAW, ORDER AND SECURITY
(a) Crime
79. 1985 will probably show a slight increase over 1984 in recorded crime, due largely to an
increase in burglary and shoplifting. By contrast, the decrease in violent crime recorded in
1984 has continued in 1985. with a further reduction in the number of robberies and cases
involving firearms. An aggressive crime prevention campaign continues under the guidance
of the Fight Crime Committee. I have asked the committee to give high priority to further
measures to combat the insidious menace of triads.
80. Commercial crime has increased noticeably in recent years and the trend in large scale
frauds facilitated by corruption. to which I referred last year, has unhappily continued. Crime
of this nature damages the community and besmirches Hong Kong's reputation internationally.
A strengthened Commercial Crime Bureau is spearheading an assault on commercial crime,
and some 30 per cent of the ICAC's Operations Department are now directed to investigations
in this field. During the last session, I commended the work of the Select Committee on
Complex Commercial Crime. I shall invite the Council to consider the continuation of this
work by reappointment of the Select Committee for the coming session.
81. Corruption reports received by the ICAC have in total shown an increase of 7 per cent so
far this year, with a more marked increase of 16 per cent in reports relating to the private
sector. As part of the continuing effort against corruption in the private sector, the
commissioner has recently formed a Corruption Prevention Advisory Services Group which,
on request, advises private businesses and companies on ways in which the risk of corrupt
practices may be minimised. This service has been drawn to the attention of governmentlisted contractors and subvented organisations, and is available to members of professional
and business societies and associations.
(b) Police
82. We shall continue to rely on our efficient and dedicated Police Force to maintain law and
order during and beyond the transition of the territory to a Special Administrative Region.
Having regard to the terms of the Joint Declaration, it is clear that the force must undergo
some changes, among other things in the staffing of the senior ranks. We foresee a valuable
role for expatriate police officers; the force must nevertheless achieve localisation at a faster
pace than hitherto. At the same time, we must not jeopardise the force's efficiency, nor
endanger its high level of morale. I expect soon to receive
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 30 October 1985 27
recommendations on how such objectives can best be achieved, from a steering group
comprising the Commissioner of Police, the Secretary for Security and the Secretary for the
Civil Service.
83. In the meantime, the force and its resources are being continually modernised to meet
changing policing requirements. In the coming year, work will start on the building of a new
headquarters complex. The fleet of divisional patrol craft will reach full strength in December
this year, when the Marine Police take delivery of their last new craft in an order of 15.
(c) Narcotics
84. Events over the past 12 months also indicate that the Government and the community
must continue to be on guard against the ever-present threat of drug abuse. The progress made
in 1984 and in the first quarter of 1985 in reducing the number of newly reported drug abusers
is in danger of being eroded by the lowest heroin prices ever recorded, and by the persistence
of the drug traffickers; notwithstanding the relentless efforts of the police and customs which
have led to many successful prosecutions and often heavy sentences. Preventive education
among the young by the Action Committee Against Narcotics will continue.
85. There is a growing and world-wide interest in measures to deprive convicted drug
traffickers of their ill-gotten and enormous profits. The Government is closely examining the
measures which have been adopted or are being considered by other countries, with a view to
deciding on a practicable approach for Hong Kong in tackling this international problem.
(d) Vietnamese refugees
86. Vietnamese refugees continue to arrive in Hong Kong, although the "closed centre"
policy has reduced the influx. The rate of resettlement remains disappointingly low; many
refugees have been in camps here for up to five years. In September, the British Government
announced a relaxation of its family reunion criteria for Vietnamese held in camps in
countries of temporary asylum. This means that about 500 such refugees currently in Hong
Kong will become eligible for resettlement in the United Kingdom. The British Government
will also consider accepting further limited numbers of refugees from Hong Kong, provided
other countries do the same. For our part, we are prepared to accept a limited number of
ethnic Chinese, but only as part of a widely concerted international attempt to reduce our
Vietnamese refugee population. Both Governments have mounted a major diplomatic effort to
this end.
(e) Correctional services
87. As part of the continuing effort to persuade criminals not to resume criminal activity
when they leave prison, the Government plans to introduce legislation to provide for the
establishment of a type of parole scheme in Hong
28 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 30 October 1985
Kong. Under this scheme, prisoners fulfilling certain conditions will be eligible for release
under supervision before completing their sentences. Under a related scheme, certain
prisoners may be allowed to leave prison to take up pre-release employment, again under
supervision. Both schemes are designed to provide an opportunity for prisoners to re-integrate
into society, without falling prey to elements likely to induce them to revert to criminal
practices.
(f) Fire services
88. Substantial human and financial losses are suffered each year as a result of fire, in
particular because of the way in which fire-fighting is frequently hampered by goods and
other obstacles stacked in common areas of buildings. The Government plans to introduce
amendments to present legislation. making it a direct offence to place movable objects in
corridors or on staircases. Locking gates across escape routes will also be made a specific
offence.
(g) Legal aid
89. The last comprehensive review of legal aid services took place in 1971. At that time the
Government was spending $1.5 million per annum on limited services; today it is spending a
little over $80 million per annum on a much wider range of services. Allowing for the impact
of inflation. this represents more than a ten-fold increase over 15 years. A working party is
examining all matters relating to this important aspect of our legal system. When its review
has been completed, there will be full consultation with the legal profession and other interest
parties, probably in early 1986.
(8) THE PUBLIC SERVICE
90. We are now in the third year of the campaign to stabilise the size of the civil service. I
am pleased to announce that a large measure of success has been achieved: the civil service
establishment has increased by only a little over 3 per cent since 1983 and has hardly grown
at all over the last year. The small increase has been due almost entirely to the need for
additional staff to man new facilities and provide expanded services in areas such as health,
education and law enforcement. The achievement has come from improvements in work
methods, and hence in productivity, within the civil service. Much of this has been the direct
result of initiatives taken by the staff themselves. We are fortunate to have a loyal and
dedicated civil service which has responded well to our efforts to maintain zero growth in
recent years. It is the intention that the civil service should stay lean, but there will be areas
where additional staff are required to provide essential services to the community.
91. The localisation policy which has been pursued since the 1960's continues to bear fruit.
Local officers in increasing numbers are taking up senior positions, and the proportion of
local officers in the directorate has climbed from 31 per cent in 1976 to 50 per cent in 1985.
We shall continue with localisation,
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 30 October 1985 29
taking care to ensure. however, that efficiency and morale are not jeopardised. There is now a
sufficiently large and growing pool of local talent at middle and senior levels for us to be
confident that we shall be able to fill top posts with local people. in terms of the Joint
Declaration, before 1997. But there will still be a place for overseas officers, whose services
are highly valued. Their employment in the Government after 1997 is provided for under the
Joint Declaration.
(9) CONCLUSION
92. In conclusion, I trust that honourable Members will agree that the imaginative and
ambitious policies and programmes, which you have heard me describe today, are evidence
that your Government is conducting its affairs with a clear purpose. We intend to promote
steady progress combined with stability and to continue the improvement in the quality of life
in Hong Kong. We shall continue to formulate and execute policies which will fulfil this
purpose. We shall continue to seek out and respond to the public will.
93. Honourable Members, the Government will rely heavily on your support and advice in
this endeavour. I am confident you will ably discharge this responsibility in the best interests
of Hong Kong.