(1) INTRODUCTION
(a) General
It is now just a year since my predecessor, Sir Edward YOUDE, presented his last address to
this Council. I should like to start this, my first address to the Council, by again paying tribute
to his achievements in guiding Hong Kong through an anxious period in its history. The best
tribute—and what he himself would have wished—is to press on with the task of making
Hong Kong a better and more prosperous home for all our people. This will be my firm
resolve and that of the Government throughout the coming year. To achieve this we shall be
seeking the support and assistance of this Council and of all those concerned with public
affairs throughout the Territory. I hope that what I have to say will demonstrate that we have
practical and forward looking plans and that, with your help, they are within our powers to
accomplish.
2. It is more than a quarter of a century since I first came to Hong Kong. It is a great
privilege to return now as Governor to work on behalf of the Territory—a place for which,
ever since I first came here, I have felt great admiration and affection. During the past 25 years
Hong Kong has developed enormously, both materially and in the cohesiveness and stability
of its society. The sense of belonging to Hong Kong is much stronger than when I first came
here. There are few other places in the world which have made such rapid and comprehensive progress in such a short time. That this has happened is a tribute to the flexibility and
adaptability of our economy and to the energy and resourcefulness of our people.
3. Nevertheless, much remains to be done. We need to consolidate the gains of the past
and to build on them to achieve the improvements in our community that we would all like to
see. The best way to achieve this goal is constantly to look ahead, and face up to, the
economic and social needs and challenges of the future and to make sensible plans to deal
with them. This we intend to do.
(b) Legislative Council business
4. For this Council, the past year was the busiest session ever. The coming year promises,
if anything, to be even busier. One of the most impressive things about Hong Kong is the
amount of time and energy that people, in this Council and elsewhere, devote to public affairs.
So, despite a heavy work load, I am confident that all the measures brought before the Council
will be examined carefully, critically and fairly. No doubt we will have vigorous debates on
many issues; this is as it should be if we are to get things right.
16 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987
(2) RELATIONS WITH CHINA
(a) Introduction
5. Before reviewing local developments and the plans for the future which intimately
concern us all, I should like to reflect on our relations with China. Over the past decade, our
links with the Mainland have continued to grow and develop in every field. They have
become an increasingly significant factor in our day-to-day lives. These links are important
both for the present and for the future. In addition to the many personal contacts between
people in Hong Kong and people in the Mainland, we have a wide range of official and
institutional channels for exchanges of ideas on matters of common interest. These channels
have functioned well. They have helped in developing the sort of mutual understanding which
is so important in solving practical problems as they arise.
6. I have myself recently returned from Peking. I found that visit useful as an opportunity
to explain some of our concerns to senior Chinese officials dealing with Hong Kong affairs
and to learn about theirs. I am sure that this sort of dialogue helps to promote a relationship of
co-operation and mutual understanding which will benefit both sides. I look forward to
continuing this dialogue, and hope to make a further visit to Peking before the end of the year.
(b) Political relationship with China
7. The single most important aspect of our relationship with China is of course the
implementation of the Joint Declaration. This continues to make good progress. There should
be no doubt about the determination of both sides to implement fully the terms of the
agreement.
(i) Joint Liaison Group
8. The Joint Liaison Group has, over the past year, recorded further solid achievements. I
will cite only a few examples. Following consultation in the group, the Government were able
to start, in July, issuing permanent Hong Kong identity cards and a new type of Certificate of
Identity. A start was also made on issuing British National (Overseas) passports. The first of
Hong Kong’s Air Service Agreements, that is an agreement separate from one also involving
the United Kingdom, came into force on 26 June. And also in June, Hong Kong was admitted
as a member of the Customs Co-operation Council. And full agreement has been reached on
the New Pension Scheme for the Civil Service, which came into effect on 1 July.
(ii) JLG Sub-group on IRO
9. The standing sub-group on International Rights and Obligations, set up by the Joint
Liaison Group, also continues to make steady progress. Its work gets less of the limelight but
it is none the less of great importance. As a result of the work in the group, agreement has
been reached in principle on Hong Kong’s
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987 17
future participation in the International Telecommunications Union; the International
Maritime Organisation; the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development; and the
Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific.
(iii) Land Commission
10. The Land Commission is another body which gets little publicity but which continues
to do important work, producing practical solutions to a number of practical problems. Earlier
this year it reached agreement in principle on legislative means to extend the vast majority of
land leases in the New Territories to the year 2047 without requiring payment of an additional
premium. To give effect to this, the New Territories Lease (Extension) Bill was introduced
into this Council in May and will, I hope, pass through its remaining stages and become law
early in this session.
(iv) Looking ahead
11. As provided for in Annex II to the Joint Declaration, the Joint Liaison Group will have
its principal base in Hong Kong from 1 July next year. This will provide an opportunity to
strengthen contacts between members of the British and Chinese teams, and to give further
impetus to the work of the group.
12. I am confident that both the Joint Liaison Group and the Land Commission will
continue to play an effective and positive role in implementing the terms of the Joint
Declaration.
(v) Basic Law
13. Over the past year, the Basic Law Drafting Committee and its various sub-groups have
made substantial progress in drafting the Basic Law which will put into effect the Chinese
policies towards the Special Administrative Region set out in the Joint Declaration and its
Annexes. Naturally, the people of Hong Kong have been watching with great interest the
drafting process of the document which will form the framework for the Special
Administrative Region and which will also influence the evolution of our own systems before
then. Many Hong Kong people have been directly involved in the process. The first draft of
the Basic Law, due to be published early next year, will be another key building block in the
creation of a clear structure for our future.
(c) Economic relationship with China
14. Hong Kong’s economic links with China continue to grow. During the past year China
has remained our largest trading partner. In turn, we are now the biggest single market for
Chinese exports, quite apart from the large amount of Chinese goods which are transhipped to
other markets through Hong Kong. Total visible trade between China and Hong Kong in the
first half of 1987
18 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987
showed an increase of 52 per cent over the first half of 1986. This is remarkable by any
standards. Hong Kong is also responsible for a very high proportion of external investment in
China. Between 1979 and 1985, some two thirds of all pledged external investment in China
came from Hong Kong. The process is two way. Chinese investment in Hong Kong continues
to grow, as do the financial links between us.
15. An important development is the increasing amount of manufacturing processing now
being sub-contracted by Hong Kong businesses to China, particularly to the Pearl River Delta
region. It has been estimated that up to 1 million Chinese workers are now employed in this
way. All these trends work to the benefit of both our economies.
16. Travel between Hong Kong and China also continues to grow. In 1986, Hong Kong
people made almost 12 million visits to China, and 280 000 Chinese visitors came to Hong
Kong for business, pleasure and family reasons.
17. In addition, Hong Kong plays a vital role as a gateway between China and the rest of
the world. Last year 670 000 overseas visitors to China travelled through Hong Kong. Travel
between Hong Kong and the Mainland has recently been made easier by better facilities at the
border and simplified immigration procedures. Further improvements are being planned.
(3) ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL SITUATION
(a) State of the economy and prospects
18. Within this Territory, a sound, healthy, economy is the essential foundation on which
all our other endeavours and achievements must be based. We must continue to develop an
environment within which business will flourish. From this, and only from this, will flow the
creation of wealth which brings higher standards of living to our people and which gives
Government the ability to fund social programmes to meet the growing expectations of our
community. We are fortunate that these fundamental truths are well understood in Hong Kong:
it is one of our greatest strengths. This approach to economic and social reality forms the
backbone of all our policy making.
19. So far this year the Hong Kong economy has done better than we expected. In the first
half of the year domestic exports rose by 27 per cent and re-exports by 49 per cent, compared
with the same period in 1986. Domestic demand was strong in terms both of consumption and
investment, and the property market has been active. Particularly welcome has been the
continuing growth of investment in plant and machinery—an essential prerequisite for
expanding our industry and increasing its efficiency. Overall, we expect the growth rate of our
gross domestic product in 1987 to reach 12 per cent in real terms. This would be even better
than the high figure of 11 per cent achieved last year and would be a very encouraging result.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987 19
20. Internally, the buoyancy of the economy has led to a sharp tightening of the labour
market. Unemployment has fallen to a record low of 1.8 per cent and underemployment to 1
per cent. In the 12 months ending March 1987, the earnings of workers in manufacturing and
service employment rose by an average of 12 per cent in money terms (or 7 per cent in real
terms). There are indications that the rate of increase has accelerated over the last six months.
Our workers are thus sharing in the general prosperity.
21. There are, however, some danger signs to which we must be alert. The first is inflation.
The depreciation of the Hong Kong dollar is now being felt in higher import prices, although
relatively weak world commodity prices, and the high proportion of our imports which come
from countries whose currencies have also been depreciating, have so far cushioned this effect.
In addition, rapid economic growth, and the relative shortage of labour which naturally
follows from it, will tend to push up prices and dampen our currently strong export
competitiveness. As of now the situation is not serious; but it will need to be watched.
22. Looking ahead, I remain confident that the longer-term outlook for Hong Kong’s
economy is good. Nevertheless, we have to realise that its performance will continue to be
heavily influenced by external forces outside our control. We remain vulnerable, not only to
threats of protection in our major markets. but also to swings in demand and in economic
activity in those markets. Admittedly, our economy is very flexible. We can ride the storms
better than most. But if the storms do come we must be prepared to react to them quickly.
23. All this means that we must not only follow carefully developments in our overseas
markets. We must also maintain and improve the long-term competitiveness of our major
export industries. Both these concerns lie behind the Government’s current thinking on trade
issues and our strategy for industrial development.
(b) Trade
24. So far as trade is concerned, the Government’s main role is to do all we can to foster a
free and open trading system, and to ensure maximum access for our manufacturers to
overseas markets. These objectives the Government pursue, both through bilateral relations
with governments in our major markets and multilaterally by taking part in international trade
organisations, particularly the GATT. Much valuable assistance in selling Hong Kong
products is given by the Trade Development Council: I should like to pay tribute to their
efforts.
25. In looking at our recent excellent trading results we must also be aware of the danger
posed by protectionist sentiment in the United States. Both Houses of Congress have
produced versions of a Trade Bill which contain a number of protectionist provisions. An
even more direct threat comes from pending textiles legislation. Protectionist legislation in the
United States would not only
20 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987
damage Hong Kong’s trading interests directly. It would also produce retaliation and counterretaliation. The result could only be severe damage to the world trading system. Both the
Government and the private sector are taking every opportunity to impress on the United
States Administration, and on congressional leaders, the dangers inherent in protectionist
legislation. I shall be going to Washington myself in two weeks’ time: these important matters
will be high on my agenda.
26. Hong Kong is the prime example of a free-trade economy. We believe in working for a
freer and more open world trading system. As a full member of the GATT, Hong Kong has
been playing an active role in the Uruguay round of multilateral trade negotiations now taking
place in Geneva. Some progress has already been achieved. There is a growing identity of
views in the negotiations on the need for improved procedures to settle trade disputes. It is
important that these negotiations should make steady progress. All could be put at risk if
protectionist actions were to get out of hand. We must do everything we can to prevent this
happening.
(c) Industry
27. At the same time as seeking to secure our access to overseas markets and working
towards a more open world trading system, we need to consider how we can best encourage
and assist our manufacturing industries to become increasingly competitive. The Productivity
Council, the Industry Department, the Industrial Estates Corporation and the Vocational
Training Council all have an important role in this effort.
28. The Government have, for many years, given a high priority to providing an adequate
infrastructure for industry, in particular to ensuring that sufficent supplies of energy, water and
industrial land are made available. More recently, we have begun to place increasing emphasis
on providing support services specifically to assist industry to improve productivity and
quality. Recent examples are the establishment of the Standards and Calibration Laboratory,
the Laboratory Accreditation Scheme, and the Design Innovation Company.
29. In addition, a number of new initiatives are being taken to assist industry through the
valuable work of the Industry Development Board. These result from careful and detailed
studies of the needs of particular industries which cannot be filled by the industry itself.
Proposals are now being worked out for a plastics technology centre based in the Hong Kong
Polytechnic; and a scheme has been launched to help engineers obtain training overseas in
new electronic technologies. The universities, and the Hong Kong Polytechnic, have been
given funds to research possible industrial applications for the latest electronic and computer
aided design and manufacturing technologies. A pilot industrial extension service has also
been set up to encourage small manufacturers to use the industrial support facilities and
services provided by the Productivity Council, the Industry Department and the Vocational
Training Council. In
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987 21
addition, the Industry Development Board will consider in the coming months the need and
timing for a third industrial estate, as well as the need for a technology centre to house
companies engaged in the commercial application of high technology, and to encourage a
closer partnership between industry and the academic community.
30. A key role in enhancing the productivity of industry has been played by the
Productivity Council. Plans are now at an advanced stage to centralise the council’s services
in a new building in Kowloon Tong in 1990, and to expand substantially its services for the
metal working and electronics industries. The council will also be active in promoting new
production management techniques, and is currently assessing what more needs to be done for
the textiles industry.
31. All this will, I hope, serve to demonstrate that a great deal is now being done to help
our industry meet the growing challenge of competition in overseas markets.
(d) Co-ordination of science and technology
32. As our industry, economy and society become more complex and sophisticated, we
need to pay more attention to the part that modern science and technology can play in
furthering development. To ensure that we get the best advice in this area, the Government
have decided to appoint a Committee on Science and Technology. Its task will be to seek out
and develop new scientific ideas of relevance to Hong Kong and to advise government
departments on how they might best be applied. Where necessary, special groups will be set
up under the main committee to look into particular issues which require the application of
scientific or technological knowledge.
(e) Management of public finances
33. In managing the public finances the Government tries essentially to act like a prudent
housekeeper. It is quite rightly an article of faith that we should seek to raise revenues in ways
that are efficient and which do not act as a brake on the growth of the economy by blunting
the incentives to effort, enterprise, investment and innovation on which our economic growth
essentially depends. Hong Kong has learned by experience that relatively modest levels of
taxation, which are capable of being collected, produce more revenue in the long run than
higher and more onerous rates since they give encouragement to economic expansion. This
low tax philosophy will continue to be our guide.
34. On the expenditure side, the Government aims to ensure that public spending does not
exceed a reasonable and prudent share of the Gross Domestic Product and that its growth
should, as far as possible, not exceed the growth rate of the GDP. This means that, in order to
maintain and develop our programmes and services in difficult years, it is necessary in the
good years of
22 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987
rapid economic growth to run surpluses and to put money aside. This lesson was brought
home sharply during the deficit years, from 1982 to 1985, when we had to call on our reserves
to maintain the existing level of services.
(i) Current state of public finances
35. It is important to remember this lesson now when, because of our excellent economic
performance, the public finances are in good shape and revenue has been boosted, particularly
in such areas as profits tax, stamp duty and land sales. Despite this welcome situation we must
remain prudent. If we allow public spending to grow too fast now when the economy is doing
well, it will be hard to rein it back in less buoyant times. It therefore remains the
Government’s policy to manage the public finances with care and with close attention to
longer-term trends in the economy.
36. Nevertheless, our present economic situation does provide some scope for expanding
public services and responding to new needs. I will be indicating later in this speech some of
the areas in which expansion can be expected. These will be within the constraint that we
shall try to limit the growth of the Civil Service to not more than 2.5 per cent in any one year.
(ii) Resource allocation system
37. I should now like to refer to the new arrangements which are being introduced to
improve the Government’s long-term financial planning: they are known as the resource
allocation system. Our present arrangements suffer from not being able to provide us with a
means of monitoring performance against demand and, more importantly, not enabling us to
respond more flexibly to changing economic and social developments. The new system will
improve forecasting methods so that we can predict more accurately the size of our financial
cake in future years and then have the ability to plan rationally how it should be shared out
between competing government services.
38. When it is operating fully, this new system should enable us to plan and monitor more
efficiently the use of resources across the whole spectrum of government activities; to allocate
resources in a more flexible way; to assess how effectively they are being used; and then to
make better decisions on the difficult choices between different priorities.
(f) Regulation of financial and commercial sectors
39. Hong Kong has continued to develop as a major financial centre. Private enterprise is,
and will remain, the main driving force in this process. The Government’s role lies in
strengthening the legal and institutional framework in which the financial services industries
operate. It must be our task to ensure, particularly when the marketplace is flourishing, that it
warrants the trust and confidence of those who participate in it.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987 23
40. With this in mind the Government published for public consultation in early June a
draft paper on disclosure of shareholdings. Its main purpose is to require disclosure of any
substantial shareholdings in listed companies. It will then be clear exactly who controls these
companies, and it will be more difficult for the control of companies to be obtained by stealth.
We are also seeking to strengthen the present legislation against insider dealing. The objective
in all these matters is to ensure that Hong Kong has the benefits of both a free market and a
fair market.
(4) DEVELOPMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE
41. In developing the economy and the social infrastructure we are crucially dependent on
adequate and well directed capital investment, both public and private. This is particularly true
for our basic programmes of public works. They provide the framework for all other activities
and need continually to be expanded and modernised.
42. A key element of our development strategy has been the New Towns Programme.
Over the past 15 years this has provided land for almost 200 000 public housing flats
(including Home Ownership); more than 130 000 units in the private sector; and a very
considerable land bank for other purposes, including industry. A significant milestone was
passed this year when the total population of all the new towns reached 2 million. As a direct
consequence of the New Towns Programme the population of the New Territories has trebled
since the programme started in 1972.
43. This is a very impressive achievement, as I have seen for myself on a series of district
visits over the past few months. It is not yet finished. It will continue into the ‘90s, with the
completion of the existing new towns and with further developments at Ma On Shan, Junk
Bay and Tin Shui Wai.
44. From now on, however, redevelopment in the older urban areas will become an
increasing priority. The new land required for this will have to come from harbour
reclamations. It is already clear that a greater proportion of the resources available for capital
investment will have to go towards expanding the essential economic infrastructure of the
Territory, especially our port facilities. The rapid growth of cargo traffic, particularly
container traffic, makes this essential.
45. Last year, the port handled a record 14 000 ocean-going vessels and 82 000 river trade
vessels; and the numbers of both have been steadily growing in recent years. The number of
containers handled has also increased by as much as 50 per cent in three years. Expansion is
expected to continue in the next few years by an average of at least 9 per cent a year. It has
been boosted by the rapid growth, over almost a decade now, of Hong Kong’s role as an
entrepot and transhipment centre for China, in line with the expansion of China’s own world
trade. We now possess the second largest container port in the world in terms of
24 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987
throughput and may soon become the largest. Port expansion must therefore be our first
priority in maintaining the growth of our trade and economy. When terminals 6 and 7 at Kwai
Chung have been completed, we shall have to decide where in the general harbour area further
development should take place.
46. At the same time it is critically important for Hong Kong to have a first class
international airport. Kai Tak has served us well over the years. But it has limited potential for
expansion and must eventually reach its ultimate capacity. Even before that point is reached
we must take account of the environmental impact on Kowloon of an airport at Kai Tak
developed to full capacity. In looking at possible alternative sites, it is clear that the best sites
for a new airport are in the west of the Territory, where new roads and other infrastructure can
be built to serve both port and airport developments, as well as, possibly, to provide a new
western harbour crossing. We are now commissioning a joint Port and Airport Development
Study to advise on the best and most economic solution to these two critical problems. The
study will draw on, and put together, all the work which has already been done on harbour,
airport and road development. It will be completed by the late summer of 1989. We shall then
be in a position to take some fundamental decisions about the future development of the
Territory.
47. Clearly the resources required for these developments will be very large. At the same
time we shall have to meet continuing demands on public funds for housing and urban
renewal and for other substantial projects, such as new hospitals. It may be necessary to seek
more private involvement than previously in developing suitable parts of our economic
infrastructure. All of this means that the control and co-ordination of our massive
development programme will become even more important. We are looking urgently at the
form of governmental organisation required to carry out this task.
(a) Transport
48. In the meantime, the planning and execution of the various parts of our capital
development programme continue apace. In recent decades a great deal of thought, planning
and investment has been put into the development of Hong Kong’s transport network. We
now have a public transport system which, in terms of variety and flexibility, might well be
the envy of many other large cities.
49. But this is an area where one has to run in order to stand still: growth in the demand
for transport never ceases. For instance, between 1982 and 1986, the total daily distance
travelled by all vehicles in the Territory increased by 12 per cent from just over 14.5 million
km to just under 16.5 million km. This happened despite the fact that the number of registered
vehicles was constant over the period and the number of private cars declined significantly.
The reason was that the number of goods vehicles increased by over 30 per cent and
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987 25
the distance they travelled by almost 60 per cent. This is a very sharp increase. Between 1982
and 1986, also, the average daily number of passengers travelling by public transport rose by
16 per cent to 9.5 million.
50. We are an increasingly mobile society, partly from choice, and partly from necessity.
Continued long-term planning for new transport facilities, and the provision of the necessary
resources to build them, is therefore essential. For this reason, the Government commissioned
a second Comprehensive Transport Study at the end of last year. It will be completed by the
middle of next year and will make recommendations for the period up to 2001. We shall seek
public views on its recommendations before major decisions are taken.
51. Transport development is not standing still while this study takes place. A large
number of major transport projects are in hand or being planned. These include the final
stages of the New Territories Circular Road, the tunnel to Junk Bay and the new Route 5 from
Sha Tin to Tsuen Wan, much of which is also by tunnel. The Eastern Harbour Crossing is now
under construction. When it is linked with the future Kwun Tong Bypass and the proposed
Tate’s Cairn Tunnel between Sha Tin and Diamond Hill, it will provide a new trunk route
between the north-east New Territories and Hong Kong Island. Plans are also being drawn up
for Route X, which will link the north-west New Territories with the urban area. Without
counting Route X we are planning to spend $5 billion on highway construction over the next
five years.
52. The first phase of the new Light Rail Transit system between Tuen Mun and Yuen
Long is due to open in August next year. It will then be followed by further extensions to
provide the north-west New Territories with a modern public transport system sufficient to
meet demand until well into the next century. The Second Comprehensive Transport Study
team is now looking at the viability of providing a fixed rail link between the main urban area
and the north-west New Territories. The decisions to be taken include whether to start it in
Yuen Long or Tuen Mun and where its destination should be in the urban area. The
Government hope to make a decision on this before the end of 1988.
(b) Transport links with China
53. Particularly important at the present time are the improvements being made to ease the
movement of people and goods to and from China. Road crossing facilities will soon be
substantially improved by the Lok Ma Chau crossing at the western end of the border: this
will link directly into the New Territories Circular Road. Stage I of the crossing will be
finished at the end of 1988 and the second span of the bridge in late 1989. There will then be a
total capacity at all border road crossings of about 50 000 vehicles per day. This compares
with some 9 000 crossings per day at present.
54. For sea passengers, the new China Ferry Terminal in Canton Road will open in mid1988 and will have sufficient capacity to meet demand into the next century.
26 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987
55. Conditions for cross border rail passengers were improved significantly when the new
terminal building at Lo Wu was opened early this year. A further extension is now being
planned to cope with anticipated future growth in traffic. It should be completed in about four
years’ time. Our ability to handle the increasing volume of freight coming from China by rail
will also be much improved by the planned expansion of the KCRC Freight Yard at Hung
Hom Bay.
(c) Housing
56. Housing is another key part of our social infrastructure. I am pleased to record that the
target, set in 1972, of housing 1.8 million people has now been exceeded. I have seen a good
deal of this new housing on district visits, and very impressive it is. But we still have some
way to go before we achieve our aim of providing adequate housing for the whole community
at affordable prices. We must also take into account the fact that the pattern of demand for
housing is changing. More and more people want to own their own homes or look for better
quality housing. These aspirations are recognised in the Long-Term Housing Strategy which
was tabled in this Council in April.
57. The strategy aims to provide increased opportunities for home purchase, as well as
additional rental accommodation and a comprehensive redevelopment programme for the
older rental estates. It sets the target of providing homes for an additional 1 million families
from the public and private sectors combined by the year 2001. On present estimates that
would enable the whole of our population to be adequately housed by that date. In the public
sector the amount of housing available for purchase rather than rental will increase from 18
per cent this year to 27 per cent in two years’ time.
58. The Government have also been taking a detailed look at the organisation of the
housing programme to meet new and future needs. The Housing Authority’s terms of
reference are to be expanded to enable it to monitor and direct an overall housing programme
in partnership with the private sector. Financial arrangements for the authority will also be
revised to give it more flexibility and a new chairman will be appointed who will not be an
official. The necessary legislation will be put to this Council in time for the new arrangements
to be introduced at the beginning of the 1988-89 financial year.
(d) Urban development and renewal
59. Since the mid-70s, more than half of the Government’s capital expenditure has been
devoted to building the new towns. Inevitably, what has been done there has tended to show
up the relatively poor environment of some of the older parts of the urban area. We now need
to put more emphasis on improving the heavily populated areas around the harbour, where
some 3.5 million people live and which also provide many of the centres of employment. As
we all know parts of them are heavily congested, with dilapidated living conditions and a
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987 27
lack of essential amenities. The reclamations now being planned at Hung Hom, western
Kowloon, Central District and Kennedy Town will provide a real opportunity to plan a
restructuring of the harbour area so as to reduce some of the present excessive building
density. With this aim in mind, a special team is being set up under the Lands and Works
Branch to produce a comprehensive master plan for the whole metropolitan area. This
metroplan will provide the basis for more detailed district planning and for individual urban
renewal and redevelopment schemes.
60. A key role in urban redevelopment will be played by the proposed Land Development
Corporation. The Bill to set up the corporation has been published; it will be put before this
Council soon. The role of the corporation will be to undertake, promote and facilitate
redevelopment, especially in the older parts of the urban area. It will be given powers to
acquire and develop property, either as single developments or as joint ventures with other
developers. The Government hope that, within the next five years the corporation will make a
real and positive impact on the urban environment.
(e) Environment
61. As we become a society which can offer an increasing proportion of our people
something more than the basic necessities of life. it is natural that more emphasis should be
placed on improving the quality of life. This means, among other things, giving people a
chance to live in a healthy environment free, as far as possible, from pollution. But the harsh
reality is that, despite all the efforts made up to now, many of our pollution problems are
becoming worse. not better. Indeed, after decades of economic and population growth, we are
now faced in some areas with serious pollution. I have seen many examples over the past
months. We need to do more to tackle this problem.
62. Our aim is to work out a sensible and co-ordinated programme to deal with pollution
in all its various manifestations. Panic measures are not needed. But we need to take some
clear decisions even if, at first sight, some of them appear to be relatively costly. It is worth
remembering that pollution itself brings its own costs, both human and economic.
63. It is an indication of the greater effort we are now devoting to this task that the staffing
of the Environmental Protection Department (which co-ordinates all the Government’s
programmes for environmental protection) has been increased by more than four times in the
past two years. Expenditure by the department has grown similarly, from just over $20 million
in 1985-86 to almost $83 million this year. During this time it has concentrated particularly on
dealing with water and air pollution and with the disposal of solid waste.
64. Particular attention is now being given to controlling the discharge of untreated,
sometimes toxic, wastes from factories and to checking the uncontrolled disposal of livestock
waste. For many years livestock waste has been a
28 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987
cause of serious water pollution. This Council is now considering a Bill to give effect to a 10-
year livestock waste control programme which includes provisions to prohibit the keeping of
livestock in the urban area and the new towns. Even though we cannot expect instant results,
the measures in that Bill will have a significant effect on many of our water pollution
problems.
65. The Government’s plans for dealing with solid waste involve the development of large
capacity landfill sites in remote areas of the New Territories, linked to transfer stations in the
urban areas and the new towns. Once they are fully operating, we will be in a position to close
down the municipal incinerators, which cause a great deal of air pollution and which have
provoked much public complaint.
66. Another problem which needs to be tackled with greater urgency is sewage disposal.
Schemes are now being prepared for areas where sewage problems are most acute. These
include east Kowloon, the north-west New Territories and the Tolo Harbour catchment area.
This programme will call for substantial investment of as much as $10 billion over the next
decade. This investment is essential if we are to have the facilities we need for the efficient
dispersal and treatment of sewage, both to safeguard the quality of our coastal waters and to
provide industry with means for the proper disposal of liquid waste.
(5)EDUCATION
(a) General
67. A vital element in the economic and social progress of any society is the education of
the future generation. Even in purely economic terms a good educational system is an
investment which produces high returns. But it is much more than that. Properly developed,
education is also one of the main foundations of a civilised and a tolerant community.
68. For several years the aim of Hong Kong’s educational policy has been to provide every
child with the best education from which he or she is capable of benefiting, at a cost that
parents and the community can afford.
69. This has meant that our school system has had to grow extremely fast. Thirty years ago
education was a privilege available only to a small minority. Less than 20 years ago the
Government’s immediate policy objective was to provide a subsidised primary school place
for every child. Less than 10 years ago Hong Kong achieved the provision of nine years basic
education for all. Today, with education taking up 18 per cent of the annual Budget, we have
100 per cent provision of free places up to Form III (that is to the age of 15) and plan to
provide enough places in senior secondary forms and technical institutes to meet the expected
demand. We also have ambitious plans for growth in the tertiary sector. None of this can be
provided cheaply. The cost of education to the public purse will continue to grow.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987 29
70. Such rapid growth has meant that in recent years the emphasis has been on providing
as many places as possible. Even so, the standards achieved in public examinations have been
maintained. Increasingly in the future we should place the emphasis on further improving the
quality of our education.
(b) Schools
71. One problem we have had to face in planning our school system, including the school
building programme, is the changing distribution and demographic composition of the
population, especially with the development of the new towns. This has, at times, created
imbalances between the numbers of pupils and secondary school places in different areas; it
has led to many children having to travel considerable distances to school. This problem is
being tackled. Some 10 new secondary and prevocational schools will be completed in time
for the start of the September 1988 term and an additional 70 by 1993. Most of them will be in
the New Territories, particularly in Tuen Mun and Sha Tin. In addition, some existing schools
will be moved from substandard premises in the urban areas to new buildings in the New
Territories.
72. A major challenge facing our schools in the next few years is the language issue. On
the recommendation of the Education Commission, the Government are introducing a number
of measures to encourage the greater use of Chinese in the classroom. But Hong Kong’s
continuing prosperity depends on its remaining an international centre. This means having a
high standard of English. For this reason we have started a pilot scheme to provide secondary
schools with native English speaking teachers from overseas and have organised language
courses in the United Kingdom for local secondary school teachers of English.
(c) Technical Education and Industrial Training
73. Adequately trained and retrained manpower is vital to the continued success of our
commerce and industry. Hong Kong’s newest and largest technical institute was opened in
Chai Wan last month. This has increased the number of full-time places for craft and
technician courses from under 4 000 in 1982 to over 10 500 now. Part-time places have also
increased over the same period by about 50 per cent to a total of over 46 500. By 1989 the
annual number graduating from the technical institutes will reach 22 000. This is impressive
by any standards.
(d) Higher education
74. Our tertiary institutions have also been growing at great speed. They now provide more
than 34 000 full-time equivalent places, with over 18 000 students on degree courses. This
number will increase further when the third university opens. By the mid 1990s, we should be
providing a total of about 55 000 full-time equivalent places in higher education. This will
mean that over 10 per cent of the 17 to 20 age group will be starting on first degree courses in
Hong
30 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987
Kong compared with only 5 per cent now. And we must not forget that more than 25 000
Hong Kong students are now estimated to be studying at tertiary institutions overseas.
75. In addition to a wide range of degree courses at the universities, we are building on the
successful introduction of vocationally-oriented degree courses at the polytechnics and the
Baptist College to help meet Hong Kong’s needs for specialist manpower. Over the next three
years, a Law Department will be established at the City Polytechnic and speech therapists will
be trained at Hong Kong University. Proposals are also under discussion for setting up an
Engineering Department at the Chinese University.
(i) Hong Kong University of Science and Technology
76. Last year a committee was appointed, under the chairmanship of Sir Sze-yuen
CHUNG, to plan our third university: ‘The Hong Kong University of Science and
Technology’. A superb site not far from Clearwater Bay has been chosen and the legislation
necessary for the incorporation of this new selfgoverning academic institution was enacted by
the Council in July. The project has been given a major boost by a generous donation of
HK$1.5 billion from the Royal Hong Kong Jockey Club. This sum will meet most of the
capital cost of building the university campus. Following a successful plenary session of the
planning committee last month, it is now hoped to appoint the vice chancellor by the end of
this year; to establish the new university’s council in April next year; and to accept the first
students in 1991, well ahead of the original planned date of 1994.
(ii) Length of university courses
77. The length of degree courses at our tertiary institutions has been the subject of a good
deal of recent debate. The problem is not new. It arises from the different course lengths and
systems of matriculation adopted by the two existing universities, which place differing
demands on schools preparing pupils for university entry. It has been looked at a number of
times in the past but has still to be resolved.
78. In March this year, the Education Commission began a comprehensive study of the
structure of tertiary education. The results will be published in its third report. I hope this
report will provide an opportunity to resolve this historical problem in a constructive way. The
commission is considering a wide range of options. It will consult widely before it makes its
recommendations. There will be a further period of public consultation after the publication of
the report before a final decision is taken on what changes, if any, are needed.
79. This is field where sincerely held views differ widely. All concerned have a
responsibility to work in co-operation for a solution which will be in the best interests of the
whole community of Hong Kong.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987 31
(iii) Research
80. Research is an important element of the work done in the field of higher education.
Good research contributes to the intellectual liveliness of the institutions themselves. It also
provides the skills for the industrial innovation on which our economy will increasingly
depend. The Government recognise these important points. We shall be increasing the funds
made available to our tertiary institutions for research over the next three years by almost
three times to a total of $120 million.
(iv) Academic accreditation
81. Another important aspect of our educational needs is to be able to assess locally the
standards of the degree courses at our non-university tertiary institutions. The Government
have therefore accepted the recommendations of the Planning Committee on Academic
Awards for the establishment of a Hong Kong Council for Academic Accreditation. The new
council will assess and validate degree course proposals from the two polytechnics and the
Baptist College, replacing the overseas body which previously performed this task. The
necessary enabling legislation will be introduced during 1988. The council’s membership and
procedures will be designed to ensure that degrees awarded by the two polytechnics and the
Baptist College will continue to maintain their present high standard and to enjoy international
recognition.
(v) Open learning institute
82. In our plans for higher education, it is important that we should provide opportunities
for those who have not previously benefited from higher education, and to those who have
done so, but who need to update and renew their skills. This was a point made in the second
report of the Education Commission. To meet these needs, the Government have now decided
to set up a planning committee for the establishment of an open learning institute.
83. The provision of an open learning institute, which will be Hong Kong’s sixth degreeawarding institution, will considerably increase the opportunities for tertiary education. The
institute will offer degree and sub-degree courses. It should admit its first students in 1989.
(vi) Conclusion
84. Taken together, our plans for the expansion of tertiary education over the period of the
next decade are impressive. They amount to a doubling of degree opportunities for those who
wish to take advantage of them. Even so, the proportion of our youngsters who will be able to
receive the benefit of tertiary education will still remain comparatively small by world
standards. If Hong Kong is to continue to produce highly qualified people for all sectors of our
economy, we should look ahead now to further expansion in this area.
32 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987
(6) HEALTH AND SOCIAL PROGRAMMES
85. We have also made great strides over the years in the development of our health
services and social programmes.
(a) Medical and health services
86. Improvement in our health service can be measured by the fact that Hong Kong now
has an average life expectancy of 74 for men and 79 for women. These figures are high by
world standards.
87. The Government’s policy has always been to use the resources available to promote
most effectively the health of the community as a whole, and particularly that large section
which relies on subsidised medical care.
88. In doing so, great emphasis has been placed on preventive medical care. This is
provided free, or at nominal cost, through a comprehensive network of outpatient clinics,
maternal and child health centres and school dental clinics.
89. Much has been achieved, too, in the provision of curative medical treatment. This is
based on the five regional hospitals and four other large hospitals. In addition, there has been a
steady growth in new specicalist clinics and other supporting facilities as well as in the
numbers of hospital beds and professional staff. In Tuen Mun we are currently building one of
the largest hospitals in the world with 1 600 beds. And before that is completed we will start
work on an even larger hospital in Eastern District, the Pamela Youde Hospital, which will
have 2 000 beds.
90. Nevertheless, much still remains to be done. As I have seen for myself, some of our
hospitals suffer from serious overcrowding. The undoubted dedication of our medical staff is
no substitute for lack of bed-spaces. Plans are in hand to deal with this problem. The number
of hospital beds will increase by no less than 50 per cent in the coming decade. We need also
to realise that the public is demanding higher standards in this as in other areas of their lives.
We must do what we can to meet these demands. In doing so, however, we are inevitably
constrained by the long lead time necessary to build and equip hospitals and to provide the
trained staff to operate them. In addition, in Hong Kong as elsewhere, the cost of providing
medical services is increasing very rapidly: this may lead to difficult decisions on priorities in
future years.
91. The problems we face in our hospitals were highlighted in the consultants’ report on
the Delivery of Medical Services in Hospitals. So too were longerterm concerns about the
effective use of resources and the problems associated with the management of large hospitals.
Having carefully considered the consultants’ report and public reactions to it, the Government
have now decided in principle to set up a statutory Hospital Authority, with regional
committees, to oversee the delivery of medical services in all government and subvented
hospitals. This means a completely new organisational structure for
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987 33
our hospitals. It will provide a clearer line of responsibility and accountability; enhanced
flexibility to meet special needs; and more public participation in decision making and
evaluation. A provisional Hospital Authority will be formed in April 1988 to oversee the
legislative and administrative steps necessary for its formal establishment. The new authority
will be supported by a Hospital Services Department as its executive arm. In addition, a
Department of Health will be created within the Government to focus on the promotion of
public health and preventive medical care. An early task for the authority will be to look into
ways in which a set of common terms and conditions of service can be established for all staff
working under the Hospital Authority. In the course of the next few months, further
consultations on these matters will be held with staff and with the subvented organisations
affected.
92. This important new initiative demonstrates the Government’s firm determination and
commitment to improve medical and health services. We intend to continue to provide
subsidised medical services to one and all. To do this we need to have an organisational
structure which will be more efficient, effective and responsive. When the new proposals are
presented to this Council, I hope that they will commend themselves to Members.
(b) Social services
93. Another area where the Administration has been reviewing existing policies and
considering new initiatives is the field of social welfare and social security. Well-designed
social security and social welfare programmes contribute to a stable and prosperous society.
Our safety net, though relatively modest by the standards of most advanced countries, is better
than in most comparable countries in this region. But it needs to be kept constantly under
review.
(i) Social security
94. Hong Kong’s non-contributory social security arrangements are designed to bring the
income of a single person, or of a family, up to a level where essential needs such as food,
clothing and accommodation can be met. The special needs of the elderly and the disabled are
covered by additional allowances.
95. Since 1984, there has been no increase in the basic rates of Public Assistance and
Special Needs Allowance. This is because the rate of inflation in the last few years has been
low. Recent movements in the Public Assistance Index, however, mean that an improvement
in these rates will soon be necessary. Subject to the approval of the Finance Committee of this
Council, it is proposed that there should be an increase of about 10 per cent on the basic rates
of Public Assistance and Special Needs Allowance starting on 1 April 1988.
96. In addition, the Administration has carried out an overall review of the Public
Assistance Scheme. As a result the Government have decided that, as from 1 January 1988, a
number of improvements should be made to present
34 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987
arrangements. These will include increasing the level of public assistance to larger families;
the provision of a higher level of annual supplement for such families; and the introduction of
a meal allowance for children attending full day school. A further improvement will benefit
able-bodied recipients of public assistance who are in regular employment but whose wages
are low. As from January next year only a part of their wages will be offset against their public
assistance allowance, rather than all their wages as at present. This is to encourage them to
remain in work.
(ii)Financial needs of the elderly
97. The financial security of retired persons and the welfare of the elderly generally is a
matter on which members of this Council have expressed concern, particularly in the
adjournment debate on 13 May on the desirability of setting up a Central Provident Fund.
98. As time goes by, the proportion of old people in our population will increase. Many
people also fear that traditional family ties, on which the elderly have until now largely
depended for support, are being eroded.
99. It has been argued that compulsory provident funds would go some way towards
meeting these concerns. The Government have considered these arguments carefully. We have
also considered the contrary argument: that compulsory funds, particularly a Central Provident
Fund, would benefit least those whose need is greatest, that is those who have not held steady
jobs or whose pay has been low. There is a further argument that compulsory funds could also
have an adverse effect, possibly a seriously adverse effect, on our economy.
100. We have therefore decided that it would not be right to set up a Central Provident Fund
or to make private funds compulsory. We have instead given careful thought to other ways in
which retired people, and elderly people generally, can be helped. In particular, we have
looked at ways of introducing supervision of private provident funds; improving social
security; and extending and changing the character of the Long Service Payment Scheme.
101. There are now a considerable number of provident funds and other retirement schemes
in Hong Kong, all without offical supervision or regulation. The recent insolvency of several
of these funds has prompted the Government to examine the framework within which they
operate in relation to practice elsewhere. It is clear that our present arrangements suffer from
some potentially serious shortcomings. We have therfore decided that a proper regulatory
framework for such funds should be established. This will ensure that assets which are held
for the future benefit of employees, including their own savings, are given an adequate
measure of protection. Because regulation will affect a large number of employers and
employees, it would be right to consult the
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987 35
public on the adequacy or otherwise of the rules before they are put into effect. We therefore
intend to publish in the near future a consultative document setting out a proposed regulatory
framework.
102. Next, social security provision for the elderly. Firstly, the Government propose to
extend the Old Age Allowance in stages so that, instead of only applying to those over 70, it
will, by 1991, apply to all those over 65. In addition, we intend, as from 1 April 1988, to
introduce a higher rate of allowance for those over 70: it is people in that age bracket who
tend to be more frail and to have a greater need of assistance. The new higher rate of
allowance will be paid to all those who now get the Old Age Allowance, that is those now
over the age of 70. New applicants will however be required to make a simple declaration that
their income and assets do not exceed certain levels before qualifying for the allowance.
Second, we also propose to double the normal rate of disability allowance for severely
disabled persons who do not live in a government or subvented institution, but nevertheless
require constant attendance from another person. This increased allowance will not be subject
to any from of means test or income declaration. The Social Welfare Advisory Committee and
the Rehabilitation Development Co-ordinating Committee will be consulted soon on these
proposals.
103. Taking into account the likely increase of about 10 per cent in the rates of payment of
social security in April 1988, the new rates of Old Age Allowance will amount to about $280
per month for those aged 65-69, $320 for those over 70, and $1,120 for the severely disabled
who require constant attendance. These proposals are of course additional to normal public
assistance payments to those old people who are eligible to receive them. They are designed to
help improve the quality of life of our senior citizens.
104. Lastly, we plan to extend and change the character of the Long Service Payment
Scheme. Originally this provided only for employees being dismissed. It will now be extended
to include workers retiring because of old age or ill health. We shall also be considering how
we can introduce further improvements in the future. From the employee’s point of view the
Long Service Payment Scheme has three major advantages over a Central Provident Fund. He
does not have to contribute to it; elderly workers do not have to wait so long to benefit from it;
and, most important, it is based upon the employee’s final salary and is not therefore so
vulnerable to erosion by inflation.
(iii) Social welfare services
105. Within our social welfare services, there are several issues which call for more
attention.
106. There has been increasing public concern recently about the problems associated with
ageing. Quite apart from financial needs, there are the physical needs of the frail and infirm
who can no longer live with their families or on
36 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987
their own. The shortage of places in care-and-attention homes run by Government and
subvented welfare agencies has led to the mushrooming of private nursing homes in the last
few years. The standards of service provided in these private homes can vary greatly. The
Social Welfare Department is now assessing the extent to which they comply with the code of
practice issued last year, and will then decide whether legislation is required to bring these
homes under closer control. Meanwhile, we are continuing with our programme to increase
the provision of subvented care-and-attention homes. There are now 12 such homes providing
just under 1 500 places. By 1991-92 we expect these figures to rise to 28 homes with nearly 5
000 places.
107. There is also a need to improve services to other vulnerable groups in our community.
The plight of street-sleepers, bed-space dwellers, children suffering from domestic violence,
the mentally disturbed, the destitute and other less fortunate persons, have put a considerable
strain on our welfare services. Most of our social workers carry a very heavy workload. There
is a great need to increase their numbers and to provide more trained personnel. We must also
re-emphasise and support the role of the family as the cornerstone of society.
108. Finally, we need to continue, and to strengthen, co-operation between the Government
and the subvented social welfare services. The subvented sector provides helpers, expertise
and enthusiasm. They have kept alive a worthy tradition of community support for welfare
services. The Government will encourage them to continue their contribution to the creation
of a caring and stable society.
(iv) Rehabilitation
109. One of the areas to which the Government is paying particular attention is services for
the rehabilitation of the disabled and the mentally handicapped. Over the next five years, we
plan to increase and improve the facilities for child assessment and for the education and
training of disabled and mentally handicapped children. More will also be done to provide
additional residential places and vocational rehabilitation programmes for the mentally
handicapped and the disabled. I am pleased to announce that, with the approval of Her
Majesty The Queen, we propose to set up a Queen Elizabeth Foundation for the Mentally
Handicapped. This will be funded jointly from the proceeds of the sale of Royal Visit Gold
Coins, from general revenue and from contributions by other donors. The foundation will
complement the Government’s programme in this area. It will also provide additional
resources to improve the care, education and training of the mentally handicapped.
(c) Employment
110. The problems associated with labour shortages in boom conditions have recently been
the subject of wide public discussion. We have long followed the policy of allowing wages
and other incomes to be decided generally by the
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987 37
forces of the marketplace. This has, over the years, enabled us to ensure the competitiveness
of the export industries on which our economy, as well as the standard of living of our
workforce, depends so heavily. It has also given us the low levels of unemployment which
must be widely envied in other parts of the world. The other side of this coin is that, when our
economy is booming and exports are doing well, there is a tight labour market, with demand
for labour exceeding supply. In these conditions the logic of our system means that
competition for labour bids up wages. In this way, in times of prosperity, our workers get their
fair and deserved share of the bigger overall cake. Another consequence is that industrialists
invest in new labour saving machinery. This tends to increase productivity and helps to
upgrade the quality of our products. It is for these reasons, among others, that the Government
have resisted calls for a relaxation of our immigration rules to permit the large scale
importation of labour.
111. In dealing with conditions of employment, our target for a number of years has been to
achieve conditions broadly equivalent to the best prevailing in neighbouring countries whose
stage of economic development and social and cultural background is similar to our own. In
pursuit of this objective the Government have enacted 142 items of labour legislation over the
last 10 years. But we are not complacent. Rapid economic growth quite rightly gives rise to
increasing social expectations. So we must continue to improve our standards.
112. A high level of economic activity has unfortunately also brought with it an increase in
industrial accidents, in spite of all the efforts that have been made by employers, workers and
the Government to improve industrial safety. The Government will introduce legislation this
session to impose on both employers and employees a general responsibility for safety and
health at work; to introduce custodial sentences for serious offences; and to control dangerous
substances used in industry.
(7) CULTURE AND RECREATION
113. Ours is a society which works hard. It also has increasing demands for recreation and
culture. How people spend their leisure time in a crowded, yet increasingly affluent, territory
is an important aspect of the quality of life.
(a) Broadcasting
114. Broadcasting, whether by television or radio, has a significant role to play in the
leisure activities of most people. Last year the Government announced decisions on a number
of the major recommendations arising from the Report of the Broadcasting Review Board.
Since then, considerable progress has been made in implementing these decisions.
38 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987
(i) Future of RTHK
115. Towards the end of last year the Government announced that Radio Television Hong
Kong would be made responsible to an independent Board of Governors. This will be a
further step in bringing about more community participation in the operation of the public
broadcasting service. One of the tasks of the Board of Governors will be to decide the
direction in which future developments in RTHK should take place.
116. We intend to bring legislation before this Council next year to provide for the
establishment of the Board of Governors. In the meantime the new financial and
administrative arrangements required by the changed status of RTHK are being examined and
developed.
(ii) Broadcasting Authority
117. This Council enacted the Broadcasting Authority Ordinance in July. Under its
provision, a Broadcasting Authority, with responsibility for wireless television, was
established on 1 September. The authority consists of 12 members, of whom nine, including
the chairman, are not government officials. The members have been drawn from diverse
sections of the community and should be genuinely representative of its interests. By drawing
up codes of practice the authority will help to ensure that television programmes provided in
future will reflect more accurately the tastes and standards of their audience.
118. The authority’s regulatory functions will later be extended to cover radio broadcasting
and cable television.
(iii) Cable television
119. In July 1986 the Executive Council accepted in principle the Broadcasting Review
Board’s recommendation that cable television should be introduced in Hong Kong. Following
a public invitation, eight developers expressed an interest in establishing a local cable
television system and submitted outline proposals.
120. A cable television network can be used for a wide range of telecommunication services
in addition to the transmission of television programmes. The possibility of its introduction
has therefore raised the more fundamental question of whether Hong Kong’s communication
requirements can adequately be met in the next decades by the existing single
telecommunications network, or whether a second network should be allowed. This is a highly
complex and technical issue. For the sake of Hong Kong’s future as a centre of international
communications we must get the answer right. The Government have therefore decided to
commission outside consultants to study and report on the technical and economic
implications of introducing a second domestic telecommunications network. The consultants
are due to report by the end of this year. Thereafter, we expect to be in a position to invite
tenders for a cable television service in the second half of 1988.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987 39
(b) Culture
123. Over the last decade there has been a significant expansion in such facilities. New
concert 121. In cultural activities Hong Kong is now taking its rightful place as an important
centre in the region.
122. The Government’s policy is to promote appreciation of, and participation in, cultural
and artistic achievements and activities. This policy emphasises the development of local
talent and local professional performing companies as well as the provision of suitable
facilities in which they can perform.
halls and theatres have been provided throughout the Territory by the Government and the two
Municipal Councils. These include new Town Halls in Tsuen Wan, Sha Tin and Tuen Mun. In
addition phase II of the Cultural Centre at Tsim Sha Tsui will be opened in mid-1989. By then
we shall have as many as 21 000 theatre and concert hall seats available throughout the
Territory. This is not counting the Hong Kong Coliseum and the Queen Elizabeth Stadium
which are also sometimes used for such performances.
124. We are fortunate that we already have a great deal of local talent and many local
companies performing at a high standard: examples include the Hong Kong Philharmonic
Orchestra. the Chung Ying Theatre and the Hong Kong Ballet. We must continue to develop
such talent to make the best use of our facilities and to attract wider audiences. Earlier this
year I presided over the first graduation ceremony of the Academy for Performing Arts. The
academy will soon be producing more professional performers and teachers to make their own
contribution to the future development of the arts.
125. While developing our own talent we must not forget the need to attract to Hong Kong
the highest quality performers from overseas. This has already been happening on an
increasing scale in recent years. The programmes and activities organised by the Municipal
Councils play a major role, both in this respect and in providing opportunities for local
performers. In addition, the Hong Kong Arts Festival, which has taken place every year since
1972, and which the Government are continuing to help fund, has become firmly established
as a significant event in the international cultural calendar.
(c) Sports and recreation
126. Another area of particular importance, to our young people especially,. is sports and
outdoor recreation. The Government, the Municipal Councils and numerous voluntary sports
bodies and associations all play active and important roles in promoting and developing sports
and recreational activities, both for mass participation and for the pursuit of excellence.
127. During this financial year, increasing support and technical advice will be given to
sports bodies to help people in Hong Kong take part in sports and recreational events, both
here and overseas. Between them, the Council for Recreation and Sport and the Municipal
Councils plan to provide over S37 million this year to fund a variety of events.
40 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987
128. We can be proud of the fact that Hong Kong now has a remarkable range of sports
facilities. We have 19 full size public swimming pool complexes—and four more are under
construction. We have 27 multi-purpose games halls, with facilities for basketball, volley ball,
badminton, squash and fitness rooms. As many as 26 more are under construction. And we
have the Coliseum and Queen Elizabeth Stadium which are used for large scale indoor
sporting and recreational events.
129. We are also fortunate, for such a small territory, to possess 21 country parks. They
cover as much as 40 per cent of Hong Kong’s land mass and provide superb opportunities for
people to enjoy the open countryside away from the hustle and bustle of the urban
environment. In 1986-87 they received nearly 10 million visitors—clear evidence of their
continuing and widespread popularity. I have made great use of them myself over the past few
months.
(8) TRAVEL AND TOURISM
130. Both because we live in a densely populated environment, and because we are a
business orientated community, the right to travel freely and without hindrance outside the
confines of Hong Kong is a matter of great concern to most people in the Territory. They wish
to be sure that, when they travel to other countries, they can do so with as little inconvenience
and with as few formalities as possible.
(a) Passports and travel documents
131. In this connection considerable concern has been expressed recently about whether
there will be problems in using the new British National (Overseas)(BN(O)) passport.
132. British National (Overseas) status, and the passport that goes with it, were introduced
on 1 July. Those who are entitled to use this form of passport will continue to be able to use it
after 1997, whereas the Hong Kong British Dependent Territory Citizen (BDTC) passport will
not be valid after the establishment of the Hong Kong SAR. Provision was made for the new
passport in the exchange of memoranda associated with the Joint Declaration. Its introduction
followed some nine months of intensive diplomatic activity by the British and Hong Kong
Governments to explain the new status to other governments. Despite all that has been said on
the subject to the contrary, the response has been encouraging. The great majority of the
countries to which Hong Kong people travel most often have publicly stated that they will
treat the BN(O) passport in the same way as they do BDTC passports; and this includes the
continuation of visa free arrangements where these exist. No government has said that it will
not accept for entry to its territory travellers holding the BN(O) passport.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987 41
133. I am aware that there has been public concern about the validity of the BN(O) passport.
The fact that not every country in the world has issued a statement on their acceptance of the
passport is not significant. One would not expect them to do so. The BN(O) passport is a
British passport issued under the authority of the Secretary of State. As with any passport it is
assumed that other countries will accept it as a valid travel document. In the rare event that
they do not do so, it is for them to make this clear. I see every reason to believe that people
using the new BN(O) passport will be able to travel as widely and easily as they do now on
BDTC passports.
(b) Computerised immigration control
134. It is also important to travellers that they should be able to move in and out of Hong
Kong quickly and conveniently. In May this year computer systems were introduced at the
immigration control points at the Macau Ferry Terminal and the Sham Shui Po Pier. The
system has now been extended to cover the Lo Wu and Hung Hom control points; and it will
soon be introduced also at the Man Kam To and Sha Tau Kok crossings. Kai Tak Airport and
the China Ferry Terminal in Canton Road will be covered in mid-1988; and, finally, Lok Ma
Chau in mid-1989. At that stage all travellers with Hong Kong identity cards will be able to
pass through all of our immigration control points without having to complete arrival and
departure cards.
(c) Travel agents
135. Some holiday-makers and other travellers have suffered from travel agents suddenly
ceasing business or otherwise defaulting on their obligations. We can all sympathise with
those whose plans for a holiday turn into a nightmare of travel forgone and money lost. The
problem is not unique to Hong Kong. Although we do have legislation covering travel agents
it is becoming clear that, without the deployment of disproportionate resources, this alone
cannot provide an adequate safeguard against inefficient and fraudulent operators. There now
seems to be a general consensus that the best way forward is for the travel industry to regulate
itself; that it should adopt sound and prudent practices in order to protect its own integrity as
well as the interests of its customers. The Government are liaising closely with the industry in
order to achieve this objective as soon as possible.
(d) Tourism
136. People do not only travel out of Hong Kong. Travel into Hong Kong by tourists
remains a major feature of the Territory’s life. Over the years, our tourist industry has made a
very significant contribution to the economy, relying mostly on its own resources and without
government assistance. Even the Tourist Association is largely financed from the hotel
accommodation tax. In the mid-1970s we reached, for the first time, the figure of 1 million
visitors a
42 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987
year. The number will soon reach 4 million a year. Some of our hotels are ranked among the
best in the world and we have the best shopping facilities and the most varied range of cuisine,
much of it of the highest quality. Add to this our position as a gateway to China, and it is easy
to see why Hong Kong is a very attractive tourist destination.
(9) LAW, ORDER AND SECURITY
(a) Crime
137. From pleasure to problems. I turn now to another area of great concern to the people of
Hong Kong: issues of law and order. Coping with crime is a never-ending task in any large
and crowded metropolis. In Hong Kong we have made very considerable efforts over the years
to combat crime. We have had a significant degree of success, and I would like to pay tribute
to the efficiency and dedication of our police force which does so much to ensure that ordinary
citizens can go about their affairs in safety. Crime is being contained and there is heartening
evidence that it is even declining. In this respect, Hong Kong appears to be doing much better
than many other large cities, although there is always room for improvement.
(i) Triads
138. One area of particular concern is triads. Over the past year the Fight Crime Committee
has continued to give the triad problem a high priority and a number of measures have been
adopted to counter it. One important move has been to provide better protection for trial
witnesses through the use of one-way viewers. In addition, stricter penalties have also been
introduced for those found guilty of belonging to illegal societies, and legislation is being
prepared to tighten the laws governing illegal gambling, drug abuse and the nuisances
associated with prostitution. A scheme is also being worked out to make it possible to
renounce triad membership. Next year a new computerised criminal information system will
be in operation to improve our ability to combat triad activities and other serious crimes.
139. Particular attention needs to be paid to the rising trend of crimes committed by young
offenders. Steps are being taken to improve and refine sentencing policy for such offenders in
order to improve their chances of rehabilitation. Methods are being worked out to involve
schools more closely in this problem, for instance through the use of specially compiled
teaching materials. District boards and district fight crime committees are also paying greater
attention to juvenile crime on a local basis.
(ii) Commercial crime
140. The recent conclusion of the longest and most complex court case in our history has
focussed renewed public attention on the problem of commercial crime. As hon. Members are
aware, the Government have been working on
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987 43
this problem for some time. A draft Bill has now been prepared which will implement, as far
as practicable, the recommendations of the Select Committee on Complex Commercial Crime
which aim to improve the preparatory stage and the subsequent conduct of complex
commercial trials. The advice of Executive Council will soon be sought on these proposals.
(iii) Corruption
141. The fight against corruption continues with, I am pleased to note, some significant
successes. Reports of corruption received by the ICAC now appear to be declining,
particularly in respect of the public service. On the other hand, there has been some increase
in prosecutions for corruption and related offences and in the number of convictions recorded.
(iv) Drug abuse
142. One problem which has caused us much trouble over the years is the abuse of drugs.
The linked menaces of drug addiction and of drug trafficking have now reached global
proportions. So far as Hong Kong is concerned. they are being tackled vigorously and our
methods and success have received international recognition. Hong Kong is playing a leading
role within the region in helping to co-ordinate international action against drug trafficking. It
is particularly pleasing to note that our close liaison with the Chinese authorities in this field
has significantly reduced the illegal import of mandrax.
143. This is not to say that we do not have a local problem of drug abuse. We do. But we
are containing it. Particularly as regards heroin. We are also dealing firmly with the rising
problem of the abuse of psychothropic substances.
144. The enforcement of the law against illegal drug trafficking is also being pursued
vigorously, both in relation to prosecutions and to the seizure of drugs. We need to be able to
strike more effectively at the financial roots of the illicit drug trade. So new legislation is now
being drafted to give power to the courts to confiscate the proceeds of drug trafficking. The
Government intend to introduce it into this Council during the current session.
(b) Illegal immigrants
145. Another problem which requires constant attention is illegal immigration. In June, a
sudden increase was sparked by baseless rumours of an amnesty. Our security forces once
again ensured that nearly all of the arrivals were caught on entry and returned forthwith. They
deserve our congratulations and thanks for their professionalism and unremitting efforts. We
benefitted too from good co-operation with the Guangdong and Shenzhen authorities who also
played a large part in stopping the flow. I should like to make it clear once again: there will be
no amnesty for illegal immigrants.
44 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987
146. To the familiar problem of illegal immigration has, in recent months, been added that
of former Vietnamese refugees resettled in China who have tried to enter Hong Kong illegally.
While they are with us these people are a strain on our resources in the same way as refugees.
But they are illegal immigrants, not refugees, and must be treated as such. With the effective
and welcome co-operation of the Chinese authorities, steps have been taken to contain the
flow and to return those who have arrived to China as speedily as possible. I am glad to say
that this exercise is proceeding smoothly.
(c) Vietnamese refugees
147. We also have a continuing, indeed a growing, problem in coping with refugees from
Vietnam. It is understandably a matter of great concern in our community that this problem,
which reached dramatic proportions in 1979, is still with us. The number of refugees arriving
from Vietnam so far this year has increased by 38 per cent over the same period in 1986. The
number leaving for resettlement has declined by 47 per cent. Those statistics tell their own
stories. It is a most unsatisfactory situation.
148. With the continuing help of the British Government and of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees, who have been vigorously seeking more places on our behalf, we
will go on pressing the resettlement countries to take more refugees from Hong Kong. But
resettlement countries have become very selective in choosing whom they will accept. Most
now insist that those they take should have close family connections with Vietnamese already
settled in their countries. This makes it very difficult to resettle many of our refugees. We
have a particular problem in that an increasing number of the arrivals are ethnic Vietnamese
from North Vietnam who have no connections in countries of resettlement. Many people in
our camps have waited years in the hope of being resettled. Three and a half thousand
refugees from Vietnam have been here for more than five years.
149. The Government of Vietnam bear a heavy responsibility for this continuing exodus of
despair which affects not just us but all the countries of South East Asia. We need a long-term
solution which deals with the problem at its source. But this can only be achieved by a cooperative effort by a number of countries. It certainly cannot be solved by Hong Kong alone. It
also requires the co-operation of the authorities in Vietnam itself. So far the Government of
Vietnam have said no more than that they are prepared to consider repatriation on a case by
case basis. Experience has shown that this is a very restrictive definition. I can assure hon.
Members that we, and the British Government, will continue to seek a solution to this
problem which has been with us for far too long. But I am afraid that it will require a great
deal of time and patient diplomacy before we can expect to achieve results.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987 45
(10) THE STRUCTURE AND MACHINERY OF GOVERNMENT
150. It goes without saying that, in pursuing its many and varied tasks, the Government’s
constant concern is to act in the overall best interests of Hong Kong. This means, amongst
other things, maintaining a framework of sound administration which is stable and reliable
and yet remains responsive to the changing needs of society. Only in this way can we hope to
ensure that our policies and actions continue to receive the approval and support of the
community as a whole.
(a) Review of developments in representative government
151. It is in line with this philosophy that the structure of Government, and the roles and
composition of its various components, have changed and developed over the years. This
process has been evolutionary, not revolutionary. We have taken care at each step to reflect
and consult before deciding on the next one. As part of this process, we have just completed
another round of public consultation on developing various elements of our system of
representative government. The Green Paper on the Review of Developments in
Representative Government has produced a great deal of discussion within our community.
This Council held a debate on the Green Paper in July in which all Members present in Hong
Kong, apart from officials, spoke. A number of different points of view were put forward and
were carefully and vigorously argued.
152. The Survey Office will produce its report at the end of this month. During the four
month consultation period it received a total of over 130 000 submissions. This is far more
than in any previous public consultation exercise. It is evidence of the interest which the
issues in the Green Paper, and in particular the possibility of introducing some element of
direct elections to this Council, have aroused amongst many in our community. Besides being
the passive recipient of submissions, the Survey Office has also commissioned its own public
opinion poll in order to obtain an objective assessment of the views of the whole community
on the options listed in the Green Paper. I will not attempt now to prejudge the contents of the
Survey Office report. It will be laid before this Council early next month and Members will
subsequently have an opportunity to debate its contents.
153. Important decisions will need to be taken over the next three or four months on what
changes it would be right to make in 1988. In reaching those decisions, the Government are
committed to taking full account of all the views recorded in the Survey Office report. We
will, naturally, also give full regard to other relevant factors, including the need to ensure that
any changes which might be introduced do not disrupt the steady progress we have been
making, nor the stability which is so important to our community.
46 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987
(b) The public service
154. Whichever way we structure and organise the institutions of government, the
continuance of sound administration will depend greatly on the maintenance of a dedicated
and efficient Civil Service. In my inaugural speech I said that I had great confidence in the
experience and efficiency of the Administration. Since then, I have seen for myself the very
high qualities of our public service. I am convinced that it is fully capable of meeting
whatever challenges may lie ahead.
155. The present top management structure of the Civil Service was introduced in 1973.
Since then Hong Kong has developed socially, economically and politically; and the demands
made on that structure have increased considerably. The time has now come to take another
look at our top management organisation to ensure that it is fully equipped to respond
effectively, not only to the demands of Hong Kong today, but also to the further changes that
will inevitably take place in the future. To this end, we are engaging an international firm of
management consultants to help review the distribution of responsibilities between branch
secretaries, and to examine the working relationships and relative roles of secretaries and
heads of departments. The consultants’ report is to be completed within six months.
156. We are now also paying increased attention to making sure that a sufficient number of
trained and experienced officers will be available in future years to fill senior managerial and
directorate positions throughout the service. Officers with potential to fill posts in the higher
ranks are being identified and their talents are being developed through extensive training
programmes and attachments, both here and overseas.
157. One pleasing development has been a significant increase in the number and quality of
applications for vacancies in the public service. This year there were more than 3 000 high
quality applications for 35 posts in the Administrative Services. This is an encouraging sign of
a high level of interest amongst young people in pursuing a career of service to the
community.
158. In the area of recruitment, the Government’s basic policy on the localisation of the
Civil Service remains unchanged; overseas recruitment occurs only when suitable local
candidates are not available. The fact that local officers now fill 70 per cent of senior
professional posts, and 53 per cent of directorate posts, is a result of the consistent
implementation of that policy over the last few decades. Even so, it is interesting to note that,
owing to the increase in the size of the Civil Service, the total number of overseas officers
holding senior professional and directorate positions has remained more or less constant over
the past five years at around the thousand mark. Also worth noting is the statistic that some 90
per cent of applications from overseas officers for renewal of contracts are approved. All this
is evidence of the fact that overseas officers
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987 47
continue to make a substantial contribution to our society. In a modern and cosmopolitan
society such as Hong Kong, there will always be room in the public service for suitable talent
from overseas.
159. There is one other matter relating to the public service which I wish to mention briefly.
On retirement, some civil servants seek permission, under the Pension Benefits Ordinance, to
take up employment in the private sector. It has become apparent that the present
arrangements for considering such applications in the case of senior officers have not been
sufficient to allay public concern that conflicts of interest may arise. I have therefore decided
that an advisory committee should be established to vet applications from directorate level
officers who wish to take up employment in the private sector after retirement. I am pleased to
announce that Sir Roger LOBO has agreed to chair this committee. It will also include a
member of the Public Service Commission, a High Court Judge and the Secretary for the Civil
Service.
(c) Redress of grievances
160. There are many decisions taken within government which directly affect individuals or,
indeed, entire sectors of the community. However good and dedicated the Civil Service—and
ours is both good and dedicated—there are bound to be occasions when maladministration
occurs, or is alleged to have occurred. It is important, therefore, that suitable means should
exist to investigate complaints alleging maladministration by government authorities and to
ensure that genuine grievances are effectively redressed.
161. Following public consultation during the past year, the Government have accepted the
case for an independent authority to investigate complaints of maladministration. Detailed
proposals are now being drawn up for setting it up. Briefly, it is proposed that the authority
should be called the Commissioner for Administrative Complaints; the he should be
independent; and that he should have powers to investigate complaints alleging
maladministration on the part of government departments and statutory powers to call for
government documents. There will be some necessary exclusions from the commissioner’s
jurisdiction, for example in the fields of defence and of international relations and obligations,
as well as matters of a judicial nature.
162. The details of the commissioner’s terms of appointment, his jurisdiction, access to him
by complainants and his investigatory powers will be published as a white Bill for public
consultation before its introduction into this Council. This will permit public comment on the
details, which were only outlined in the consultative document issued in 1986.
(d) Administrative appeals
163. To improve yet further the system for the redress of grievances, the Government are
also studying existing procedures for dealing with statutory appeals to the Governor in
Council. The aim is to try to streamline and
48 HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL-7 October 1987
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY H.MYERS, GOVERNMENT PRINTER
AT THE GOVERNMENT PRINTING DEPARTMENT, HONG KONG
156670-6L-10/87 $70-G412287
rationalise these procedures, so that appeals can be handled more thoroughly and swiftly. This
may require legislation, in which case we shall seek to bring proposals to this Council during
the coming session.
(11) CONCLUSION
164. Hon. Members, I hope that what I have said this afternoon will commend itself to you
as a programme which is both ambitious and capable of achievement. The aim is to be
forward looking: to build on the very substantial achievements of the past and to be
responsive to the needs and demands of the future.
165. Many of the issues I have touched on will require the attention of this Council. New
legislation, some of it highly complicated, will be put to you for consideration. I anticipate
lively debate on many topics. The demands placed on your time and stamina will be
considerable. But I know that you will apply yourselves to the task with the same
thoughtfulness and dedication which has characterised the work of this Council in the past. I
am confident too that, where there are differences of view, they will be argued with care and
in the realisation that we all have a common objective: to further the well being of the whole
community of Hong Kong.
166. What we are seeking is the development of Hong Kong as a society which combines a
strong, expanding and competitive economy with concern for the quality of life of all its
inhabitants. This is the objective to which I commit myself and the Government. With your
help I am sure that we can, and will, make steady progress towards the achievement of this
goal.