Hon. Members of the Legislative Council,
(1) INTRODUCTION
I welcome you all, and particularly those who have just joined the Council, to the
first meeting of the new session. The Legislative Council plays an increasingly
important role in our community. Those who join the Council make a major commitment
of their time and energy to public service. However arduous the task, I feel sure
that you will also find it rewarding.
2. This new session of the Council is part of an important evolutionary process.
Three years ago, 24 elected members joined the Council for the first time. This year
the proportion of elected members has been further increased. We have with us today
the representatives of two new functional constituencies and we have two fewer
appointed members.
3. The process of development will continue. In 1991 we shall welcome to this
Council ten members who will be directly elected to represent
geographicalconstituencies. There will then be further changes in store as we move
towards a system in which all members of the Council will be elected, by one form
or another.
4. These changes to the composition of the Legislative Council are an important part
of the evolution of our system of government in the years up to 1997 and beyond. As
our society develops, our increasingly well educated and prosperous population both
seek, and deserve, to play a greater part in public affairs and have more say in the
decisions that affect their own lives. It is right that this should happen. It is
a trend which I welcome. The Government will continue to respond to it.
5. One by-product of this changing scene is more lively public debate on
issues of concern to the community. During the last session it was clear that wider
membership of the Council has brought with it a greater diversity of views and a closer
scrutiny of the work of the Government. The Government does not shrink from scrutiny.
Nor, as a community, should we shrink from expression of different views. We must,
however, try to ensure that diversity remains a force for constructive change. It
is the task of the Council to try to reconcile different views in a way which acts
for the good of the whole community.
6. The work done by this Council during the last session was substantial. I see no
reason to believe that it will be any less so in this new session. The policies of
the Government which I shall put before you this afternoon will require a great deal
of work from the Administration; and from this Council. I know that the community
will continue to be well served by Council members, working with the common goal of
maintaining Hong Kong's stability and prosperity and improving the quality of life
of its people. I look forward to working together with you to ensure these aims.
(2) ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL SITUATION
(a) State of the Economy and Prospects
7. A healthy and growing economy is the essential foundation for all our efforts
to improve the quality of life for the people of Hong Kong. Over the past decades
we have prospered by maintaining an open economy; by welcoming competition; and by
encouraging the free flow of goods, capital and technology. This has enabled us to
keep abreast of new developments; to remain competitive; and to maintain economic
growth to the benefit of the whole community. It has also helped Hong Kong to play
an increasingly active role in the development of China's economy and external trade.
8. This year, our economy has continued to grow. But the rate of growth has been
slower as the economy consolidates after very rapid advances in the past two years.
Last year domestic exports increased by 23% in real terms a remarkably high figure.
This year we expect further growth of about 6% - slower but still significant.
Re-exports continue to increase rapidly this year by about 35% in real terms. These
continuing high increases in our re-export trade - over 250% in the last 5 years show
that Hong Kong is resuming its historical role as an entrepot for trade with China
and the rest of East Asia.
9. Overall we can expect our gross domestic product to increase this year by about
6% in real terms. Although this is a slower rate of growth than we have experienced
in the past two years, it is still remarkably high by world standards. It would give
us an average annual growth rate of 10% in real terms over a three-year period.
10. With the economy operating close to capacity, our two main domestic worries are
inflation and a shortage of labour. Consumer price inflation is now running at
slightly over 7%. This is too high. But as the pressure of demand begins to slacken,
inflationary pressures should also gradually ease.
11. Over the longer term, I remain confident that the outlook for the Hong Kong
economy is bright. We are investing heavily in our physical infrastructure and human
resources so as to create the conditions for continuing growth. Nevertheless, we
have to recognise that we are dependent not just on ourselves but on the economic
performance of our major overseas markets and on our continuing access to them, as
well as on global exchange rate movements. In these circumstances we must increase
the capacity and competitiveness of our manufacturing industries and continue to
fight for a more open world trading system.
(b) The China Dimension
12. One key element in our economic future is the growth of Hong Kong's economic
relations with China. We are now each other's largest trading partners. China is
the second largest market for our domestic exports; the largest supplier and market
for our re-exports; and the second largest source of our retained imports. Hong Kong
in turn is the most important source of external investment in China, accounting for
about two-thirds of all external investment.
13. Access to business opportunities and economic resources in China have been major
factors in sustaining the rapid growth of our economy. Not surprisingly, our
neighbouring province of Guangdong plays a vital role in this. It has been estimated
that, in Guangdong Province alone, there are between 1.5 and 2 million people employed
directly or indirectly by Hong Kong businesses. This is more than the total number
employed in the manufacturing sector in Hong Kong. At the same time, companies with
Mainland interests are making substantial investments in Hong Kong.
14. With the continuation of the open door policy, China's economy seems set
to become increasingly externally oriented. The Pearl River Delta region in
particular shows all the signs of continuing to be an area of high growth. Hong Kong
already has an important role to play in the economic development of southern China
and, more widely, of China as a whole. I hope we can continue to be not only a source
of trade and investment but also an economic and financial centre linking China with
the rest of the world. This will benefit both ourselves and China.
(c) Trade
15. The Government's trade policy can be stated simply. It is to expand our access
to overseas markets and promote a freer world trading system. Our ability to argue
for freer trade has been strengthened since Hong Kong became a separate contracting
party of the GATT. We are, for instance, active participants in the current Uruguay
Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations.
16. Given our reliance on trade, protectionism in our major markets is a constant
threat. Recent United States omnibus trade legislation is, I am pleased to note,
less protectionist than earlier drafts foreshadowed; and I welcome the President's
veto of the recent protectionist Textile Bill. But we must continue to be aware of,
and guard against protectionist sentiment in the United States Congress.
17. The Trade Department and the Government's Overseas Offices are constantly alert
for the emergence of protectionism in new forms and in new places. So far their efforts
have been rewarded with quiet success and they have earned respect and influence in
the international trading community. But our efforts must not flag. We have
recently set up a new Economic and Trade Office in Tokyo. We are also expanding the
programme of sponsored visits to Hong Kong by representatives from our major trading
partners, so that they can see for themselves our free trade system and economic
potential. We set a good example in our trading practices. We must continue to make
sure that this fact is widely known.
(d) Industry
18. Manufacturing industry remains a key element in Hong Kong's prosperity. We face
stiff competition both from other economies with lower production costs and from the
established industrialized countries where there is a strong thrust towards higher
productivity, better quality and innovation. In order to stay competitive, it is
clear that we must continue to move towards high value-added, technology based,
production and reduce our dependence on the labour-intensive sector.
19. The Government will continue to give a high priority to providing land and
other infrastructure for industry. We recognise that traditional flatted factory
buildings are not always suited to the needs of the new generation of manufacturing
activities. To meet these needs, we already have two industrial estates. These have
helped to attract investment in technology intensive industries and new manufacturing
processes. We are now planning to build a third industrial estate of about 90
hectares. This will increase the size of our industrial estates by 50%. We intend
that this new estate should be at Junk Bay, with the first part of the site formation
to be completed in 1992 and land to be available for sale from 1993. We also need
to provide more industrial land with waterfront access. There is a strong demand
for this, particularly from the chemical processing industries. We have
identified an area in Tuen Mun which could provide the right facilities.
20. One of the most crucial factors in keeping up with change is .the capability
of our workforce. New programmes in manpower training are now being introduced with
the assistance of the Vocational Training Council and our tertiary educational
institutions. These will provide more trained staff in areas such as computer aided
design as well as manufacture, precision tooling and metal working.
21. Automation is a key element in moving Hong Kong towards higher productivity.
It can also help in tackling the problem of labour shortage. The Productivity Council
is increasing its efforts to promote greater automation, for example in computer aided
design and manufacture. The Government are also funding a research project in this
field at the universities, at a cost of about $4 million.
22. In our modern, competitive world, quality is vital. We cannot afford to lag
behind our competitors. Starting next year, the Government will mount a quality
campaign aimed at the manufacturing industry. And to encourage the further
improvement of our manufacturing sector I propose to expand the scope of the
Governor's award scheme for industry. We already have an award for design. This
has helped encourage manufacturers to upgrade their products. We plan to introduce
new awards next year in other areas such as quality, productivity and innovation.
23. Another important initiative is the establishment of Hong Kong's first
technology centre. Consultants are carrying out a detailed feasibility study. If
we decide to proceed, as I hope we will, this centre will become the focal point of
our effort to encourage innovation in industry. It will promote the commercial
exploitation of new ideas and technologies and will have access to technical and
research facilities. It will also help to reinforce the partnership between industry
and those in academic circles who are engaged in practical research and development.
24. We need to attract to Hong Kong a high level of foreign investment that will
bring with it modern processes and new technology. Over the past few years we have
done well. More than 150 foreign firms have invested in manufacturing facilities
since 1984. The majority have brought with them new or improved technology. We need
to keep this up and to make sure that more investors are aware of the possibilities
and prospects in Hong Kong. We are therefore upgrading and strengthening our inward
investment programme. This will include improving the services provided by our
industrial promotion offices in North America, Europe and Japan, and targetting their
operations more precisely on key sectors and individual companies.
(e) Labour Shortage
25. During the past year, the labour supply situation has been extremely tight.
The excess of labour demand over supply has created difficulties in some sectors.
The Government have already taken a number of measures to try to reduce the size of
the problem. We have relaxed restrictions on overtime work by women; examined ways
of inducing more people to enter the labour market; and expanded the advisory services
of the Productivity Council. In addition, we are now carrying out a thorough review
of our present policy on entry for employment to make sure that it is fully understood
and fully used.
26. These measures should help to ease the problem. The long term solution lies
in increased automation, greater productivity and improved wages and working
conditions which attract more people to seek employment. Hong Kong has already made
great strides in these areas in recent years. But more can be done.
27. It has been argued that such measures will not relieve the immediate problem
in the construction industry. This industry is very labour intensive and the
compactness of most construction sites limits opportunities for greater
mechanisation. There have been calls for the Government to change its policy to allow
contractors to import workers for specific projects.
28. But there are also strong arguments against such a scheme. It would
interfere with the normal adjustment process within the economy. It would also
conflict with our aim of allowing the workforce to share the benefits in good years
as they share the difficulties in lean years. We do not at present, therefore, plan
to change existing policy and allow the import of substantial numbers of workers from
outside Hong Kong.
(f) Co-ordination of Science and Technology
29. In a world where technology is developing at a tremendous pace, we must ensure
that we in Hong Kong keep up with what is going on elsewhere and turn it to our own
benefit. Six months ago, I appointed a Committee on Science and Technology under
the chairmanship of a member of this Council, Professor Poon Chung-kwong. Its aim
is to seek out and develop new scientific ideas which might be of use to Hong Kong
and advise the Government on how these might best be applied. The Committee has
started its work by giving priority attention to areas that are essential in enhancing
Hong Kong's economic efficiency and competitiveness, including, in particular, the
wider application of information technology. We aim to develop further the role of
the Committee as a source of innovative ideas on scientific and technological
development. We aim also to make good use of the Committee's expertise, for example
by encouraging it to organise exhibitions, conferences and educational programmes,
and to engage local and overseas experts to work in areas of particular value to Hong
Kong. We are now working out how to give the Committee the back-up facilities it
needs to enable it to operate more effectively.
(g) Regulation of Financial and Commercial Sectors
30. In recent years, Hong Kong has become a leading international financial
centre. We must preserve that position. This means making sure that there is
international confidence in the integrity, and the efficiency, of our markets. We
do not wish to over-regulate. But we must make sure that we meet international
standards.
31. Hong Kong, like other markets around the world, was severely affected by last
October's stock market crash. One of the main lessons we learnt then is that we are
part of a global market. The financial world is increasingly integrated and
international. This calls for more coordination and more uniformity of standards
of regulation in the main financial centres.
32. Following the events of last October, I appointed a Securities Review
Committee to examine the powers, management and operation of the Stock and Futures
Exchanges and of the various regulatory bodies in Hong Kong. It did an excellent
job.
33. The Government have accepted the general thrust of the Committee's
recommendations. In particular, we have agreed to the setting up of a new regulatory
authority, outside the civil service, to be called the Securities and Futures
Commission. Legislation will be introduced into this Council before the end of 1988
to allow the new Commission to become fully operational early next year.
34. The Securities Review Committee also recommended fundamental revision of the
constitution and internal management of both the Stock Exchange and the Futures
Exchange. These recommendations have been accepted by the Stock Exchange which has,
to its great credit, taken the initiative to implement them. The Futures Exchange
will be putting proposals to its members in a few weeks time.
35. On the settlement system for stock transactions, the Securities Review
Committee recommended that the old arrangements, which were unable to cope with sudden
increases in trading volume, should be replaced by a central clearing system under
the management of a new statutory clearing house. It also recommended an extension
of the settlement period. The Stock Exchange and other parties involved, including
a number of major banks, are now working on the detailed design of a new system which
should be in place by early 1990. And in the meantime, interim arrangements have
been introduced by the Exchange to improve efficiency.
36. Thus, within a relatively short period, Hong Kong has made great efforts to
learn from the weaknesses which were revealed last October and to put more durable
structures in their place.
37. Another problem which needs to be tackled is insider dealing. This abuse
undermines the fairness of the market. We must do all we can to see that it does
not occur. Legislation will be introduced this session to increase substantially
the range of sanctions which may be imposed by the Insider Trading Tribunal. These
measures are designed to create a more effective deterrent than we have now.
(h) Management of Public Finances
38. In managing the public finances, the Government's main aim is to ensure that
the growth of public expenditure does not outstrip the underlying growth of the
economy as a whole. This is currently about 6% a year. I shall be outlining later
this afternoon a number of areas in which we plan to expand or improve services in
the coming year, within the parameters provided by this underlying growth rate.
39. In expanding Government services we must be careful that public sector demands
do not undermine the ability of the private sector to generate the economic growth
on which our prosperity depends. Our economy is now running very close to full
capacity. In expanding public services we must not act in a way which accelerates
inflation or puts further pressures on the labour market. This means that public
sector growth must be both gradual and restrained.
40. In the next few years we shall need to spend much more than we have in the
past on improvements to our transport, economic and environmental infrastructure.
This expenditure has to be planned carefully against the background of other important
and continuing capital programmes. We have to adjust our priorities within a
gradually increasing capital budget in such a way that the overall programme matches
the developing needs of the community. Inevitably this means difficult choices.
41. It is equally important that we do not crowd the private sector out of the labour
market. The number of civil servants has grown over the past five years by an annual
average of 1.7%. Of itself, that rate of increase is not particularly worrying. But
there are signs that the rate of growth is accelerating. This could result in the
Government absorbing a greater proportion of manpower than is desirable. If we are
to meet the demand for more and better services, we are bound to need more civil
servants. But we must be careful to ensure that the civil service grows by no more
than is absolutely necessary.
42. To keep the balance between the public and private sectors right, the civil
service must do all it can to raise productivity; to increase efficiency; and to
improve the cost-effectiveness of our existing services. We must also provide a
framework for public sector management that encourages managers to get more from the
resources they are consuming: that is, to seek better value for money. To achieve
this, the Administration has been making major changes in its annual planning and
resource allocation procedures. These are designed primarily to encourage policy
secretaries to take a clearer view of priorities and a much closer interest in what
is being achieved by programmes carried out by both Government departments and
subvented organisations.
43. In both the formal Estimates and in day-to-day management, the Administration
is placing much greater emphasis on the results it intends to achieve rather than
simply the volume or vigour of its activities. It is giving priority to exploiting
advances in office automation and computer technology. And it continues actively
to look for opportunities to provide services through bodies outside the Government
where there are clear advantages in terms of cost-effectiveness and management
flexibility.
44. Taken together, these reforms represent a major management challenge to the civil
service as a whole. They provide an opportunity for the civil service to show that
it is equal to the important managerial demands placed upon it. That is an
opportunity which I believe the civil service will seize with both enthusiasm and
confidence.
(3) DEVELOPMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE
45. To sustain economic growth and to provide an adequate infrastructure, we must
continue to invest in a major capital works programme. An efficient port and airport
are vital to the territory's continued prosperity. Hitherto, it has been sufficient
to expand the existing facilities incrementally to keep pace with demand. Now,
following a period of rapid economic growth, we have reached the stage where decisions
must be taken on the future of our airport and on the location of a new generation
of port facilities, as well as the supporting road networks and transport
infrastructure these will require.
46. These major issues are being considered in a range of studies grouped under
the Port and Airport Development Strategy. They are due to be completed in the middle
of next year.
(a) The Airport
47. Hong Kong International Airport is now the second busiest in Asia. Over the past
two years the number of passengers using it has increased by almost 40%. In the same
period, aircraft movement and freight traffic have each risen by about 30%.
48. An international commercial centre such as Hong Kong must have an airport of
international standard within its own boundaries. Recent studies have shown that,
without constraint, Kai Tak will reach capacity before the end of the next decade.
Some travellers would doubtless say it has reached saturation point already. It is
therefore becoming increasingly clear that we are going to need a new airport.
49. This is a decision of great importance to Hong Kong. It involves the question
of where and when an airport should be built. It also means making sure that the
project is financially viable. Building a new airport would be the biggest project
ever undertaken in Hong Kong, costing tens of billions of dollars. It would require
massive investment in land formation, roads and transportation systems. Wherever
it was sited, it would attract industrial and residential development to the same
area.
50. The successful outcome of a project of this sort would give a major boost to
confidence in Hong Kong's future. So we must make sure that we get the decision right.
This means having all the facts clear before we take it. It does not mean allowing
any unnecessary delay. I intend that a decision will be taken before the end of next
year.
51. A new airport in a place like Hong Kong, where there is no spare land, is
a huge undertaking. It will take between 7 and 12 years to build depending on the
site chosen. In the meantime we must continue to rely on Kai Tak, which will be
expanded to ensure that it can carry us through the period until the new airport is
available. Later this year, passenger handling capacity will be increased from 12
million to 20 million per year. Additional aircraft parking will be provided in 1989
and improvements to cargo handling and other facilities in 1991. These improvements
will be costly; but they are essential if Kai Tak is to bridge the gap until the new
airport is built.
52. Kai Tak has a good safety record. The recent aircraft crash, with tragic
loss of life, was the first at the airport for more than 20 years. The response of
our emergency services was magnificent. Without their efforts, the loss of life
could have been much greater.
(b) The Port
53. An efficient port is vital for the continued development of Hong Kong. As
our domestic trade has flourished, and as trade with China has boomed, our port has
become busier than ever before.
54. In 1987, more than 70 million tonnes of cargo were loaded and discharged in
the port of Hong Kong. This is double the amount handled in 1980. In the first 6
months of this year, cargo tonnage increased by 13% over the same period last year.
Kwai Chung is now the busiest container port in the world in terms of throughput.
There have also been rapid increases in the shipment of non containerized cargo.
Continued growth at a similar rate will require massive investment in new port
infrastructure.
55. The development potential of Kwai Chung and the container port there will
be exhausted once Terminal 7 is built. Decisions on the location of Terminals 8 and
9 will be taken at the end of this year. Before the end of next year we shall need
to decide where, and how, the next generation of port facilities should be provided,
in the light of the findings of the port and airport development studies.
(c) Transport Network
56. Rapid economic growth has led to an enormous increase in the volume of
commercial traffic using our roads. Private car ownership has also risen sharply
since early 1987. In recent years, the opening of the Mass Transit Railway and the
upgrading of the KCR have helped to relieve pressure on the road system. But we still
need to invest heavily in transport infrastructure. That is why we shall be spending
$1.9 billion on new roads this year compared with $1.6 billion in 1987/88.
57. A number of major facilities are currently being built by the Government,
including the Kwun Tong By-pass; Route 5 linking Sha Tin with Tsuen Wan; the final
stages of the New Territories Circular Road; and the Junk Bay road tunnel. In
addition, private companies have demonstrated their confidence in Hong Kong's future
by investing in the construction of the Eastern Harbour Crossing and the Tate's Cairn
Tunnel: projects with payback periods extending well beyond 1997.
58. Road traffic between Hong Kong and China has increased eightfold since 1981.
There are now more than 300,000 vehicle trips across the border each month. Road
links are being improved to meet this ever increasing demand. Stage I of the new
Lok Ma Chau bridge will be opened in the middle of next year, and the second stage
by the end of 1990. The upgrading of Sha Tau Kok Road will start in 1989.
59. Other major road projects and railway improvements are being actively planned
for the longer term. I will list some. They include Route 3 (formerly called Route
X) linking the north-west New Territories and Hong Kong Island via Tsing Yi and the
proposed west Kowloon reclamation. A detailed engineering study will begin shortly
to identify the best alignment. Early next year, we will be in a position to decide
whether it is feasible to build a rail link between the north-west New Territories
and the urban area, as well as the best route for such a link. And arrangements for
extending the Mass Transit Railway to Junk Bay are already being discussed with the
MTR Corporation. In addition, consultants have been asked to advise on the proposed
KCR freight yard expansion at Hung Hom Bay and the associated marshalling yard at
Lo Wu: we intend to take decisions on these projects by the end of the year.
60. How we deal with the longer term projects will be decided in the context of
the second Comprehensive Transport Study. This will examine the policy and planning
options involved in maintaining an acceptable level of mobility for passengers and
freight up to the year 2001. The major findings of the study and the policy
implications will be set out in a Green Paper on Internal Transport Policy. This
will be published in the first half of 1989 as a basis for public consultation.
61. It is already clear that transport demand will rise substantially between
now and the end of the century. We will go on building up our infrastructure. But
inevitably there are economic, financial, physical and environmental limits on the
extent to which it can be further expanded, particularly in the urban area. Road
congestion will continue to be a problem. We will be faced with difficult policy
decisions, for example on priorities for road usage, if we are to keep Hong Kong moving
into the next century.
(d) Metroplan
62. A key issue in our consideration of future urban development is how to improve
the metropolitan area around the harbour so as to make it a better place in which
to live and work. This is being examined in Metroplan, a study started in late 1987.
63. The aim is to bring living conditions and amenities in the older urban
districts, such as Yaumatei and Mongkok, up to the same standard as in the new towns.
The newly established Land Development Corporation, the Housing Authority and private
developers all have important roles to play in achieving this objective.
64. The Land Development Corporation will soon begin to have an impact on the
revitalization of the older urban districts. Since its establishment in January this
year, it has put forward plans for 16 urban redevelopment projects. Five of these
have already been approved by the Town Planning Board. Properties are now being
bought and work on the first project should begin by the end of 1989.
(e) Rural Planning
65. While living conditions in our new towns are generally satisfactory, the
situation in the rural New Territories is not so good. Many villages still lack basic
amenities such as proper access roads, drainage and sewerage. Over the years, some
improvements have been made on a piecemeal basis, through the City and New Territories
Administration's local public works programme and the Territory Development
Department's urban fringe improvements programme. These must continue. But, in
order to make real progress, there is a need for a new and comprehensive strategy.
This is now being worked out. I expect details to be made public by the middle of
next year. Essential elements of the strategy will be the improved planning of public
and private development and the tightening of control over land use, so as to ensure
that the improvements achieved are sustainable. The task will not be easy. Much
of the land in rural areas is privately owned. There will be problems of access and
land acquisition.
(f) Water Supply
66. Water shortage used to be a recurring problem in Hong Kong. Members of this
Council will remember the 1963 to 1964 drought, when only four hours of water was
supplied every four days. Younger members of the community will be unfamiliar with
such harsh conditions. In recent years we have become accustomed to receiving a
24-hour supply. This is mainly due to increased purchases from China which now
supplies 70% of the water consumed in the territory. Our present water agreement
expires in 1994. Discussions have already started with the aim of renewing the
agreement and ensuring supplies sufficient to meet Hong Kong's requirements well into
the next century.
67. As a result of unusually dry weather in the earlier part of this year, the storage
level in our reservoirs was reduced to 32% of capacity at the end of July. Rainfall
in August and September provided some relief. In addition, the Chinese authorities
have recently agreed to supply extra water. I am pleased to say that, as a result,
water restrictions should not now be necessary during the coming dry season.
Nevertheless, more Chinese water has been requested to guard against the possibility
of low rainfall next year.
(g) Housing
(i) Public Housing Programme
68. Housing is a very important part of our social infrastructure. The
Government have taken a number of steps in the past year towards achieving our
objective of providing adequate accommodation for all by the turn of the century.
The Housing Authority was reorganized in April. It was given greater financial
autonomy so that it can put its resources where they are most needed to implement
the Long Term Housing Strategy.
69. As part of this strategy, the Authority has drawn up a programme to redevelop
over 500 older public housing blocks between now and the end of the century. About
500,000 tenants of these blocks will be allocated flats in modern estates with lower
population densities and a better living environment. To meet public demand, the
Authority is also providing greater opportunities for home purchase, both in the
public sector and, through the recently introduced Home Purchase Loan Scheme, in the
private sector. 12,500 Home Ownership Scheme and Private Sector Participation
Scheme flats have been sold this year. And 2,500 loans have been made available for
the purchase of private sector flats. This does not of course lessen our commitment
to provide rental flats for those who need them.
70. Due mainly to the acute shortage of labour in the construction industry,
housing production in the 1987/88 financial year fell below our annual target of
35,000 rental and Home Ownership Scheme flats. Completion of the delayed projects,
however, will boost production in 1988/89 to 54,200 flats. This will be the highest
number of flats ever completed in a single year and more than sufficient to offset
last year's shortfall. But I must emphasise that this high figure is mainly the
result of delays in the programme. For the future, the labour shortage casts a
worrying shadow over prospects for keeping the building programme on track.
71. To improve the standard of public housing still further, a new generation
of block designs is being introduced-the Harmony Blocks. The first of the new style
flats in these blocks will be ready in the early 1990s. They will have 10% more space,
larger kitchens and a better internal layout. The new Harmony Blocks will also use
a less labour-intensive construction method but still at a cost comparable to the
existing designs.
72. Squatter housing in the urban area is a long standing problem which has proved
difficult to resolve. We are now making real progress. This year, 32,000 residents
of the two largest remaining urban squatter areas, at Shaukeiwan and Diamond Hill,
will be rehoused. Our target is to provide housing for all urban squatters by 1994/95.
We must make sure that this is achieved.
73. In addition, a good start has been made on the clearance of the Kowloon Walled
City. So far 4,200 of the original 33,000 residents have accepted offers of rehousing.
Clearance and demolition will be completed in 1992 and the site will be developed
as a public park. A major eyesore and health hazard will then have become a much
needed public amenity.
(ii) Building Management
74. The management of private multi-storey buildings understandably remains a
subject of public concern. The Government's policy is to provide a legal framework
which will give owners of private buildings the opportunity to manage their buildings
effectively. Legislative amendments are being drafted which will make it easier to
form owners corporations, and to improve the way in which these bodies operate.
I expect this legislation to come before the Council early next year.
75. In addition, a new Advisory Committee on Private Building Management is being
established. This Committee will include a majority of non-government members, one
of whom will be its Chairman. It will advise the Government on what further measures
are needed to improve the management of private buildings.
76. The demand for cheap tourist accommodation has led to an increase in the
number of guest-houses. We must ensure that these are safe. The Administration have
therefore decided to license the operation of these premises so as to ensure
acceptable standards of fire safety, structural safety and environmental hygiene.
Work on the necessary legislation is already in hand.
(h) Telecommunications
77. Hong Kong's continued growth as a financial and commercial centre requires
that we keep pace with increasing sophistication of telecommunications services.We
have been well served by our telephone and telecommunications systems. But, in this
area as in others, competition can act as a spur to innovation and can make a wider
variety of services available to domestic and business subscribers.
78. In making a decision to introduce cable television, the Government have
therefore decided to allow the new cable network to provide alternative transmission
facilities for competitive telecommunications services such as data and facsimile.
These services are outside the Hong Kong Telephone Company's present exclusive
franchise, which covers the conventional local telephone service. Consumers,
particularly business users, will be able to benefit from a wider choice at
competitive prices in a field which offers great potential for growth and
technological innovation.
79. The Government have invited proposals locally and overseas for the introduction
of the new cable television network. As Hong Kong has the potential to support the
largest such network in the world, there is likely to be substantial commercial
interest in building it. By mid-1989, we expect to have identified a successful
bidder, or bidders, for the licences. One of the Government's aims is to make sure
that the new service will quickly become available in homes throughout the territory.
A condition for the tender is that at least 750,000 households should have access
to the service in the first 3 years and at least 1.5 million, that is 75% of all
households, after 10 years.
(4) ENVIRONMENT
80. One unfortunate by-product of our economic success and population growth has
been serious environmental pollution. Many major cities have suffered similar
problems. Water quality at our gazetted beaches has deteriorated. Discharges of
industrial waste are an increasing threat to public health. Our harbour is now
heavily polluted.
81. I am increasingly convinced that one of our major priorities must be to halt
this decline and to do more to improve our environment. This will require better
planning; major initiatives to control pollution discharges; and large scale
investment in facilities for the proper disposal of sewage and municipal and
industrial wastes. Work has already begun on all these areas. More comprehensive
and far reaching plans are now required.
(a) Sewage Disposal
82. Take, for example, our sewage problem. Hong Kong's sewerage system has been
built, piecemeal, over the last hundred years. Its development has not kept pace
with the growth of population and industry. The inadequacy of the system has become
increasingly evident. The volume of industrial and human waste has increased
substantially. Major reclamations have also affected water flows in the harbour and
the sea's natural capacity to assimilate and disperse sewage. Hence the
deterioration of our coastal waters.
83. We are now carrying out a major review of the territory's sewerage facilities.
A programme for the construction of sewage collection, treatment and disposal
facilities costing about $10 billion has already been mapped out. This will be
implemented over the next ten years. Construction of projects costing about $2
billion has either started already or will start during the next year. These include
the north-west New Territories trunk sewer and a scheme to pump treated effluent from
Shatin for discharge into the Kai Tak nullah. This imaginative proposal will reduce
the pollution of Tolo Harbour while at the same time helping to improve the condition
of the Kai Tak nullah. A start is being made on the detailed design of new sewerage
systems for east Kowloon and Hong Kong Island (south), as well as the preparation
of master plans for Tsuen Wan and Kwai Chung, north west Kowloon, Tolo Harbour and
Port Shelter. We shall need more treatment and new outfalls constructed sufficiently
far out to sea.
84. The task of implementing this ambitious programme will be given to a new
Drainage Services Department. This will be set up next year. It will bring together
functions at present carried out by a number of existing departments. It will be
responsible for the design, construction, operation and maintenance of sewers, drains
and sewage treatment and disposal facilities. It will also have an important
enforcement role in ensuring that sewage and industrial effluent are disposed of
properly.
(b) Livestock Waste Control Scheme
85. For many years, the indiscriminate dumping of livestock waste in streams and
watercourses has been one of the major causes of water pollution. In June, the
keeping of livestock was banned in the urban area and in the new towns. Controls
were introduced to cover Tolo Harbour, Anglers Beach at Tsuen Wan, and Silvermine
Bay on Lantau. Most of the livestock farms in the prohibited areas have now ceased
business: the remainder will soon follow. In the newly controlled areas there are
some 300 farms. Of these, around 200 will give up livestock farming. The others
intend complying with the controls. Demonstration projects are now being set up on
private farms to show farmers how to dispose of their livestock waste in an acceptable
and economic manner. Over the next 8 years, the controls will be extended gradually
to other parts of the territory. We cannot expect an instant, overall improvement.
But the problem is now being tackled. In time, cleaning up the watercourses will
lead to a significant reduction in the pollution of our coastal waters, particularly
in Tolo Harbour.
(c) Water Control Zones
86. Bathing beaches provide Hong Kong's most popular form of recreation. Gazetted
beaches attracted about 18 million visitors in 1987-about 500,000 every summer
weekend. The declining quality of our coastal waters has resulted in some beaches
being declared unsuitable for swimming. Others are now only marginally acceptable.
This trend must be reversed. As one step towards achieving this goal Hong Kong's
second Water Control Zone, covering the area to the south of Hong Kong and Lantau
Islands, was designated on 1 August. This will control sewage discharged from
residential and commercial premises. It should halt the deterioration of water
quality at many beaches during the next bathing season and pave the way for a gradual
improvement in future.
87. The next two water control zones will be at Junk Bay and Port Shelter. The Junk
Bay zone will control waste discharges from the new town. The Port Shelter scheme
will protect the waters around Sai Kung which are much used for recreational purposes.
Within the next five years, all Hong Kong waters will be protected in a similar way.
88. We must also give careful thought to the future development of mariculture, which
is another source of water pollution. Although it contributes to our economy, it
must not be allowed to add to the pollution of the water around our shores.
89. A great deal of effort goes into collecting floating refuse from Hong Kong waters.
22 vessels are now engaged on this task. They retrieved well over 4,000 tonnes of
rubbish in 1987. Great efforts are also made to clear rubbish from the country parks
and barbecue sites. But, as I know all too well from travelling by boat in Hong Kong
waters and from walking in the New Territories, more still needs to be done. This
is something on which individuals as well as the Administration can help. Everybody
should see it as part of their personal responsibility to help keep Hong Kong clean.
I am pleased that some major private sector organisations are eager to play their
part in tackling the pollution problem. I hope others will follow suit.
(d) Waste Disposal
90. Proper disposal of domestic refuse is an important part of improving our
environment. Good progress is now being made in implementing a long-term waste
disposal strategy. The design of two huge landfill sites in the New Territories is
at an advanced stage. In December a contract will be awarded for the construction
and private operation of Hong Kong's first refuse transfer station, in Kowloon Bay.
As more transfer stations are built we shall be able to close down the municipal
incinerators which are themselves a source of air pollution. This programme will
start with the closure of the Lai Chi Kok 'B' plant around the end of this year. The
remaining Lai Chi Kok and the Kennedy Town incinerators will be closed by the early
1990s and the one in Kwai Chung at the turn of the century.
91. Some 100,000 tonnes of chemical waste are produced in Hong Kong every year.
Much of it is dumped into the nearest drain or nullah to become a major source of
pollution. We must provide facilities for its proper disposal. Early next year a
contract will be awarded for the construction of a Chemical Waste Treatment Centre
at Tsing Yi. It will provide a means for industry to dispose of chemical wastes in
an environmentally acceptable manner. It will not have any adverse effect on the
environment of those who live on the island.
(e) Noise Control
92. We can also improve our environment through the control of excessive
noise. After a long period of preparation, the Noise Control Ordinance was enacted
in July. The Ordinance consolidates existing legislation and expands considerably
the scope of control, particularly in relation to manufacturing and construction
activities. The major provisions of the new legislation should be fully implemented
by the middle of next year. These measures are not going to make Hong Kong a quiet
city. It is far too dynamic a place for that. But they will help to keep noise to
a more tolerable level.
93. I have devoted a good deal of time to the environment. This is because I
believe that the conditions in which we live, like the continued growth of our economy,
are essential aspects of making Hong Kong what we want it to be - a place where people
want to go on working and living.
(5) THE STRUCTURE AND MACHINERY OF GOVERNMENT
(a) Top Level Structure of the Civil Service
94. We need good plans for the future. We also need the right organisation to
carry them out. The Administration must have the ability to respond effectively to
new demands. These demands stem both from the growing range and complexity of the
services provided by the Government, and from the development of our political systems.
To ensure that we are able to meet these challenges, we recently carried out an
examination of the top management structure of the civil service.
95. The review has shown that the basic structure of the Administration remains
sound. There is no need for major re-organization. Hong Kong has a civil service
of which it can be proud, with an organisational structure which has stood up well
over the years. But some re-adjustments are now needed to provide a better balance
of responsibilities between Branch Secretaries and to take account of changing needs
and priorities. We also need to bring in some new ideas to support policy making
and policy makers.
96. One important organisational change is to create a new policy branch
specifically responsible for planning and environmental protection. These are key
policy areas in our effort to improve the environment. A high degree of co-ordination
is needed between them. This must be done at the Secretary level. The establishment
of this new branch will require some regrouping of the functions presently carried
out by the Secretary for Lands and Works. An internal study, to be carried out over
the next two months, will work out the best answers to these organisational questions.
97. Another significant change will be the creation of a new policy branch responsible
for sports, recreation and culture, entertainment and broadcasting. Increasing
public interest in sports and culture has led to the formation of many new and active
voluntary organizations in these fields. The new branch, under a Secretary for
Recreation and Culture, will be able to devote more time to ensuring that the
activities of the various organizations are well co-ordinated.
98. In a fast developing society such as ours, complex policy issues arise which
require concentrated study in order to produce the best solutions. Many cut across
the boundaries of several different Government branches and departments. With their
day to day pre-occupations, secretariat branches may not always be best placed to
deal with these issues. In any case it is often valuable to be able to look at a
problem from the outside. A small "think tank", to be known as the Central Policy
Unit, will be set up early next year to consider and advise on such matters. I expect
the unit to produce imaginative solutions to difficult problems. It will have both
full time and part-time members, from within and outside the Government. The unit
will work directly to me, the Chief Secretary, and the Financial Secretary.
(b) Commissioner for Administrative Complaints
99. However good our Civil Service, it is important for the maintenance of public
confidence in the Government that there should be a reliable and independent means
of investigating allegations of maladministration. Following public consultation,
legislation was enacted in July this year to provide for the appointment of an
independent authority for this purpose - the Commissioner for Administrative
Complaints.
100. I am pleased to announce the appointment of Mr Justice Garcia as the first
Commissioner. Mr Garcia has served as a Judge of the High Court since 1979. He will
retire from the Judiciary and take up his new assignment in early 1989.
(6) PUBLIC ORDER AND SECURITY
(a) Defence and Public Order
101. The past year has seen some important developments on security matters.
After long and sometimes difficult negotiations, a new Defence Costs Agreement was
signed in July. It covers the period up to 1997. Our objective in the negotiations
was to reduce the amount paid by Hong Kong to maintain the garrison during a period
when we shall be spending more on building up our own security forces. As a result
of the negotiations, Hong Kong's share of the cost of the garrison has been reduced
significantly. Even allowing for the expansion of our own security forces, defence
expenditure is unlikely to exceed 0.5 % of GDP in the period up to 1997.
102. By world standards our expenditure on defence is small. But this does
not mean that we take the security of Hong Kong lightly. The withdrawal of British
troops will be planned on a prudent and gradual basis with no sudden changes. I do
not expect any significant withdrawals before 1992.
103. We have already started developing our own local services to ensure that we
can meet all commitments for the maintenance of public order both before and after
1997. In particular, we are now establishing a new unit within the Police Force.
Starting in 1990, this will progressively take over full responsibility for
preventing illegal entry into Hong Kong : a task in which the British garrison at
present plays a major role. I am confident that the Police will be capable of
undertaking this new task with the same dedication and effectiveness as the garrison
forces.
(b) Crime
104. The fight against crime continues to be the major pre-occupation of the Royal
Hong Kong Police Force. Recent figures show that overall reported crime in Hong Kong
has decreased slightly this year. The fall in theft cases,including a recent
sharp decline in the number of shoptheft offences, is particularly encouraging. But
the level of violent crime, such as woundings and serious assaults, continues to give
rise to concern. This year will see the introduction of further measures to combat
crime and to encourage people to protect both themselves and their property.
105. In particular, we will step up our efforts against triads. The Triad
Renunciation Scheme will be launched at the end of 1988. This will give triad members
a chance to renounce their membership and make a fresh start in society. The
Government will also propose legislation to curb illegal gambling and reduce the
problems caused by vice establishments. I hope these measures will help break up
the organised crime syndicates behind these activities. We shall also consider the
feasibility of legislation aimed specifically at organised crime syndicates and the
formation of special task forces to enforce such legislation.
106. It is particularly important that we should do all we can to discourage young
people from becoming involved in crime. We shall therefore continue to examine ways
to improve the rehabilitation of young offenders. The Young Offender Assessment
Panel will continue to offer advice on appropriate sentences for juveniles; special
Outward Bound Courses will be run for young offenders; and the Superintendents'
Discretion Scheme will allow young people a second chance, when otherwise they would
be burdened with a criminal record which could taint them for the rest of their lives.
(c) Drug Abuse
107. We have been reasonably successful in containing the drug abuse problem. The
number of new addicts reported to the Central Registry has again declined in the past
year. We have also had success in tackling drug trafficking. The quantity of No.
3 heroin seized during the first half of 1988 exceeded the total amount seized in
the whole of 1987. Close cooperation with overseas law enforcement agencies,
particularly in the United States, has been very productive. As a result, some major
international drug syndicates have been neutralized.
108. But we must not be complacent. Drug trafficking can produce huge illicit
profits. A large proportion of this is often re-cycled into the drug trade or used
to finance other illegal activities. To strike more effectively at the financial
roots of this dangerous trade, the Government is preparing new legislation which will
give the courts powers to confiscate the proceeds of drug trafficking. It will also
contain provisions aimed at preventing drug traffickers from benefitting from their
illegal profits. The draft legislation is now in the final stage of preparation.
It will be introduced into this Council shortly.
(d) Corruption
109. The number of corruption complaints against the public sector, including the
Police, has continued to decline. There has however been a rise in reports relating
to the private sector. The Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC) is
devoting increased resources to investigating major corruption-related fraud. One
positive development is that more businessmen are making use of the free and
confidential corruption prevention advice provided by the Advisory Services Group
of the ICAC.
(e) Public Order Ordinance, Section 27
110. The Public Order (Amendment) Ordinance was much in the news last year. It
was introduced by the Administration as a liberalising measure. Nevertheless
section 27 was seen by some as placing excessive restrictions on press freedom,
through the provision for dealing with 'false news'. In January, the Government gave
an undertaking to review this provision. The review will begin shortly. It will
take full account of public views.
(7) EMIGRATION/IMMIGRATION
111. Population mobility has long been a feature of Hong Kong. Many of our
residents migrated here from China. Throughout Hong Kong's history, many have chosen
to move overseas for education, training, career reasons or permanent settlement.
(a) Emigration
112. Recent increases in the number of people emigrating must be seen
against this historical and cultural background. Nevertheless they are a cause for
concern. Added to the traditional reasons for movement is a degree of uncertainty
about the future and the search for some sort of insurance policy. It would be helpful
to have accurate statistics to assess the real nature of the problem. But these are
hard to come by. We do not keep a record of the reasons why people leave Hong Kong
nor of how long they propose to be away.
113. To get a better understanding of the problem, a Government task force was
set up earlier this year to gather information about emigration. Their estimate,
and I stress that it is no more than an estimate, is that some 30,000 people left
in 1987, while at the same time about 3,000 former emigrants returned using their
old Hong Kong travel documents. In addition an unknown number probably returned
using their newly acquired passports. The task force estimates that some 45,000
people will emigrate this year. It is not possible to say with any certainty how
many former emigrants will return in 1988. But it seems likely that the net outward
flow will exceed 40,000.
114. These figures need to be seen in perspective. Emigration from Hong Kong has
always fluctuated a great deal. For example, in the mid-1970s, the average net
outflow was about 38,000 people a year. The latest forecasts should be set against
this background although they do of course represent an increase compared with the
period 1981 to 1986, when it is estimated that on average 20,000 people a year
emigrated. It is also important to note that the estimates I have quoted include
all members of the family, from the elderly to the very young. Only just over half
of those emigrating are in full-time employment. Of these, less than half are in
professional, administrative or managerial positions. It is therefore not correct
to assume that 45,000 professionals will leave Hong Kong this year. The true figure
is less than a quarter of that.
115. Another significant factor is that opportunities for emigration are probably
higher now than they have ever been. Destination countries with a global quota system
have increased their overall number of places, thus making more room for Hong Kong
people. In one significant case, where there is a country by country quota, Hong
Kong's share has been increased. Moreover, the points systems operated by some
destination countries give strong preference to the better educated and in Hong Kong
we have a large number of people who are well educated.
116. Now that we have a better idea of the numbers involved, the next step is to
analyse the problem as carefully and accurately as we can and then decide what we
can and should do about it. I shall begin by stressing what we will not do. There
is no question of interfering in any way with the freedom of people to travel and
settle elsewhere. This freedom is fundamental. Its continuation after 1997 is also
guaranteed in the Joint Declaration.
117. We need to obtain as much practical information as possible about the
qualifications and professional experience of those who are leaving. We can then
make sure that our education and training programmes provide a sufficient flow of
qualified people to fill the gaps. At present the evidence suggests that the overall
number of new university graduates each year exceeds the number lost to emigration.
We must make sure that this continues to be the case and that the new graduates have
the knowledge and skills we need, although of course a fresh graduate gained does
not equate immediately with an experienced person lost.
118. We also need to consider what can be done to make it easier for people to
return. Many people who have moved abroad remain strongly attached to Hong Kong and
our unique way of life. No wonder. Other places seem tepid by comparison. Moving
away from family and friends and settling in an alien environment is no easy matter.
But are there any obstacles to their coming back which we can remove? For a start,
we are looking at the need for more international schools to cater specifically for
children who return from overseas with their parents. Such schools would make it
easier for children who have started their education abroad to continue it in Hong
Kong. We are also looking at how to improve contact with Hong Kong people who have
moved overseas and who may be thinking of returning. We need to keep former residents
up to date with what is happening in Hong Kong, the investment opportunities and the
continued attractions of living and working here.
119. Emigration is not a short term phenomenon. It is likely to continue. We
must face up to it realistically and deal with it in practical ways. The more we
do to make Hong Kong a better place to live in, by maintaining our buoyant economy,
by improving education, housing, the environment and the quality of life, the less
likely people are to want to cut themselves off from their roots and leave this
remarkable territory to which they are so deeply - and rightly - attached.
(b) Illegal Immigration
120. Just as emigration is a long standing historical phenomenon, so is
immigration, both legal and illegal. Earlier this year illegal immigration was
reaching serious levels. In May we were returning an average of 100 illegal
immigrants a day to China. Such large numbers represent a serious problem. Illegal
immigrants who can never legitimize their position are all too easy a prey for criminal
elements and may turn to other illegal activities themselves. To curb the number
of illegal immigrants entering Hong Kong, the Government have since May prosecuted
groups arrested at their places of employment, as well as employers found aiding and
abetting them. This measure has proved effective. There has been a sharp drop in
the number of illegal immigrants arrested on entry. But we must maintain our
vigilance. We must continue to be active in deterring would-be illegal immigrants.
(c) Immigration Control
121. For legal travellers, who are of course the majority of the huge numbers of
people who enter and leave Hong Kong every day, significant improvements are in hand
to simplify and speed up immigration procedures. Computerised immigration control
was introduced at Kai Tak on 1 August. This has resulted in a welcome increase in
the speed with which Hong Kong residents can be processed. It has also been possible
to reduce the waiting time for visitors to the territory. But the situation is still
far from ideal for a major centre of business and tourism such as Hong Kong.
122. Two new immigration control points, at the China Ferry Terminal and the Lok
Ma Chau border crossing, will be computerised in December this year and in mid-1989
respectively. Adult Hong Kong residents will then be able to use these departure
points without having to carry Hong Kong re-entry permits. This will benefit the
many residents who visit China - some 16 million journeys a year at present.
(8) VIETNAMESE BOAT PEOPLE
123. For 13 years Hong Kong has had to cope with the problem of Vietnamese boat
people. We have a record to be proud of. Since 1975, 133,000 boat people have
arrived in Hong Kong. In 1979 alone almost 69,000 came here. None of them has been
turned away. But, as the years have passed, our community has found it increasingly
hard to accept that this phenomenon has turned out to be not a short term emergency
but a continuing outflow.
124. At the UNHCR organised conference on refugees in Geneva in 1979, there was
an understanding that all boat people leaving Vietnam would be classified as refugees.
The places where they arrived would give them temporary shelter: countries of
resettlement would provide a long term home. We in Hong Kong have been prepared to
play our part by providing temporary shelter on the basis that other countries were
prepared to offer permanent re-settlement.
125. In recent years it has become apparent that this complementary arrangement
has broken down. In 1987 the number of boat people resettled from Hong Kong fell
by 42%. In the same period the numbers arriving here increased by 65%. In addition,
the type of people who were arriving changed. They are now almost all ethnic
Vietnamese, most of them from what was formerly North Vietnam. Many of the
resettlement countries have questioned whether these people are not economic migrants
rather than refugees as defined under accepted international criteria: they have been
unwilling to provide resettlement places for them. Most Vietnamese boat people do
not want to stay in Hong Kong. They are seeking a new life overseas, in the United
States, Canada or Australia. The tragedy is that doors are no longer open for them.
They are people on a journey to nowhere.
126. It was against this background that the Government introduced a change in
policy on 16 June. Since then all boat people arriving from Vietnam have been
carefully screened. Those who are identified as genuine refugees can remain in Hong
Kong until they are resettled overseas. Those who are not must be returned to their
country of origin, as is the case with illegal immigrants anywhere in the world.
Their repatriation to Vietnam must of course be under conditions that are acceptable
to us and the international community.
127. In deciding refugee status, we follow guidelines established by the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). In addition, under a recently
concluded understanding, we have invited the UNHCR to monitor our procedures and
provide advice to people who wish to appeal against decisions to refuse them refugee
status. The UNHCR have also agreed to provide funds for the care of all Vietnamese
boat people in Hong Kong, whatever their status. This will reduce the cost borne
by Hong Kong by some $150 million a year.
128. The central element of our policy must remain the search for durable solutions.
For those who are screened as economic migrants, the only solution is repatriation.
Starting such a programme is the main objective of our discussions with the Vietnamese
Government. We made some progress in the first round of talks in August. We hope
to make more in the second round taking place in London this week. The sooner we
can start returning some people to Vietnam, the quicker the message will get through
that the only way to leave Vietnam is by means that are legal and safe - the Orderly
Departure Programme.
129. For those who are defined as refugees - some 15,000 who were here before
mid-June plus those who arrived after that date and are found to be genuine refugees
- our aim remains to find resettlement places overseas. We will continue to press
for more generous treatment from resettlement countries.
130. While we await the return of economic migrants to Vietnam and the transfer
of refugees to resettlement countries, we must continue to provide shelter for large
numbers of boat people. We are doing this to the best of our ability in the difficult
circumstances of a greatly increased inflow. It has placed a heavy burden on our
facilities and on those Government departments who deal with the boat people. All
concerned have responded magnificently to the crisis. I would like also to record
my appreciation of the work of the UNHCR and the voluntary agencies who contribute
significantly to the welfare of these unfortunate people.
131. As part of the policy change announced on 16 June we undertook to liberalise
the conditions of those who are defined as refugees and are awaiting resettlement.
This will be a gradual process. It will result in the UNHCR taking over full
responsibility for the camps. It will enable refugees to acquire educational
qualifications and work skills which will make them more acceptable to resettlement
countries. Job placement locally will be carried out with care by the UNHCR. There
will be no sudden flooding of the labour market, or the streets, by people who were
formerly in closed camps. The new centres, once they are opened, will be properly
managed. Their existence will not affect the services available to local people.
Where extra policing is required, this will be provided.
132. In dealing with the influx of boat people from Vietnam the Government will
be both fair and firm. We must be conscious both of humanitarian principles and the
needs of our own community.
(9) HEALTH AND SOCIAL PROGRAMMES
133. Our health services and social programmes are another area of Government
activity which has a profound effect on the life of our community.
(a) Medical and Health Services
134. We can be proud of our record in providing medical care, and in improving
public health. But the enormous expansion of medical services in recent years has
made it increasingly difficult to manage their delivery through the normal Government
organisational structure. This is the reason for setting up a new Hospital Authority.
Planning and preparatory work for this is now going ahead. A Provisional Hospital
Authority was established earlier this month under the chairmanship of Sir Sze-yuen
CHUNG. Its main task is to develop proposals for the integration of Government and
subvented hospitals under a new management structure.
135. I should like to make it clear that the Government's commitment to maintaining
public health will not in any way be reduced. Our aim is simply to ensure that the
very substantial resources allocated to the medical programme are used in the most
efficient and cost effective manner. The new authority will benefit from having
access to management skills and experience available in the private sector; it will
enjoy greater flexibility in the use of resources; and, very importantly, its
existence will encourage public participation in an area which is of great concern
to the community.
136. Naturally, staff of the Medical and Health Department are concerned about
their future. They can be assured that their terms and conditions of employment under
the new Hospital Authority will be no less favourable than at present. Also that
they will be consulted before any changes are made. Those in the subvented hospital
sector have generally welcomed the proposal to establish a Hospital Authority. They
see it as a measure which will ensure a more equitable sharing of resources. For
their part, they can be assured that their separate traditions and characteristics
will not be jeopardized.
137. I realize that the period of waiting is not easy for those who are directly
affected by the changes. But in such an important field we must take the time
necessary to get the best solution, both for the community as a whole and for those
dedicated people who work so hard in our medical and health services.
138. Meanwhile, the Administration has been examining the working conditions and
terms of service of Government doctors. There is clearly room for improvement. A
package of measures is now being considered. In particular, we are examining the
possibility of creating more senior posts, which would increase promotion prospects,
and of providing additional remuneration for doctors who work unusually long hours.
In addition, we shall be looking at post-qualification training for doctors in the
context of the forthcoming report of the Working Party on Post Graduate Medical
Education and Training. As the Provisional Hospital Authority has a long term
interest in the well-being of our doctors, I have asked them for urgent advice on
these matters. I hope that firm proposals will be made by the end of this year.
139. The expansion of the medical infrastructure continues. The 1,600 bed Tuen
Mun Hospital will be completed by the beginning of next year. The Queen Mary Hospital
Extension and the Pamela Youde Hospital in Eastern District will be completed in 1989
and 1991 respectively. These will provide not only a more even distribution of
medical facilities in the territory, but also a large measure of relief for the severe
overcrowding in our existing hospitals.
(b) Social Services
140. One of the Government's most important responsibilities is to ensure that
our welfare services provide adequate levels of support for the poor and vulnerable
in our society. Over the years, we have improved the range and quality of services,
in step with the development of Hong Kong generally and the changing needs of our
people. But we have not reached the stage where we can stand still. Hong Kong's
thrusting capitalist society rewards hard work, initiative and success. Nothing we
do in expanding our social services should undermine this. But there will always
be people in any society who, through no fault of their own, cannot fend for themselves.
Our expanding services for the very young, the elderly and the physically and mentally
handicapped recognize this. There is increasing pressure to do more for these groups.
As a prosperous and caring society, we must do our best to ensure that they too are
able to share in the rising standards we have all come to expect.
(i) Social Security
141. An important safety net for those in need is provided by our non contributory
social security system. This gives financial assistance, sufficient to meet the
costs of food, accommodation and other essentials. Additional allowances are
payable to the disabled and the elderly.
142. Last year I announced the introduction of increased levels of assistance and
improvements to the range of benefits. Most of these were introduced on 1 April.
The gradual extension of the Old Age Allowance to persons aged over 65 began in
September. Those aged 68 and 69 are now eligible. People aged 67 will become
eligible in April 1989. The scope of the Disability Allowance will also be
significantly extended. The higher rate for people requiring constant care and
attention, which is now payable to those aged over 60, will from next April be
available to eligible persons aged 16 and above. This is an important step forward
in helping those who cannot help themselves.
(ii) Regulation of Private Retirement Schemes
143. Private retirement schemes and provident funds make a useful contribution
towards meeting the financial needs of the elderly. At present these schemes operate
without official supervision or regulation. In June, the Government published a
consultative document proposing the introduction of a regulatory framework. The aim
was to ensure that assets held under these schemes for the future benefit of employees
were given proper protection. There has been general support for the proposed scheme,
although there are divergent views on some issues such as the qualifications of
trustees and the need for investment guidelines. Details of the scheme are now being
finalized and legislative proposals are being drafted for introduction into this
Council during the current session. I hope that the enactment of the legislation
will encourage the establishment of more private retirement schemes so as to give
better protection to our workforce.
(iii) Social Welfare Services
144. There are a number of social welfare services to which we will pay particular
attention this year.
145. One area of concern is the increasing number of private homes for the
elderly and the variable standards of service they offer. The Social Welfare
Department has just introduced a voluntary registration scheme: homes which meet
approved standards will be issued with a registration certificate. Through this
scheme the public will have a measure for the standard of each registered home. It
will encourage those which are not up to standard to improve the quality of their
services. The next step will be to make the operation of these homes subject to
legislative control by 1990. In parallel, the Social Welfare Department will conduct
a review of the role of private homes in the overall provision of care-and-attention
places for the elderly.
146. We are also planning to build a holiday centre which would cater for the
special needs of the elderly. Some old people are confined to hostels and careand-attention homes. Others need the full time care of their relatives. Many more
are unable to afford any sort of break from their daily routine. The new holiday
centre will provide an opportunity for large numbers of elderly people to enjoy fresh
air, exercise, and a complete change of surroundings. Construction of the project
will be funded from the Gold Coin Account.
147. Last year, I mentioned the need to improve services for vulnerable groups
in the community such as street sleepers. Existing hostels for the homeless
generally provide only short stay accommodation. We therefore need to look at the
provision of permanent hostel accommodation in the urban area. With the support of
the Social Welfare Department, the Salvation Army is going to open a hostel in Yaumatei
next month as a pilot project, so as to first test the practicality of this approach.
We can then see whether the scheme should be extended.
148. During the past year both my wife and I have visited many projects run by
the voluntary agencies and have seen the important work they are doing. The
contribution they make shows what can be achieved through a close working partnership
between the Government and the welfare agencies.
(iv) Rehabilitation
149. Services for the rehabilitation of the disabled have developed rapidly since
the publication of the White Paper in 1977. Our achievements have been considerable.
But a great deal still remains to be done. Apart from meeting quantitative targets,
we need also to raise the quality of our services. In particular, we intend gradually
to improve the staffing levels of day activity centres; extend the Rehab Bus service;
and further develop the curriculum for special education. Paramedical and
psychological services for disabled adults will also be improved.
150. The provision of employment opportunities for the disabled is another major
concern. We plan to expand the sheltered workshop programme and increase facilities
for skill training in the next few years. The Government will also continue its
efforts to make employers aware of the capabilities of disabled people, so as to
increase their opportunities for employment.
151. Work on rehabilitation needs to be associated closely with policies on social
welfare.In order to achieve better co-ordination, the Secretary for Health and
Welfare will shortly add rehabilitation to his schedule of responsibilities.
(c) Labour Legislation
152. We will continue to improve our labour legislation. The aim is to achieve
a level of statutory benefits and controls governing safety, health and conditions
of employment, broadly comparable to the best prevailing in the region. We have made
good progress. In the past year the Occupational Safety and Health Council was
established to promote a safer and healthier working environment; the Long Service
Payment Scheme was extended to cover resignations on grounds of old age or ill health;
and new controls were introduced over the use of dangerous substances in factories.
In this session, the Government will propose legislation to protect employees'
compensation in default cases; to impose a general responsibility on employers and
employees for safety and health in the work place; and to introduce custodial
sentences for serious lapses in industrial health and safety standards.
(10) EDUCATION
153. Education is a subject which I see as holding the key both to the upward mobility
which is such an important feature of Hong Kong society and to our continuing
prosperity as a community. The aim of our education policy is to provide
opportunities for every child, according to his or her abilities, at a cost which
both parents and the community can afford. We have made good progress over the past
few years. I believe we need to do still more in the future.
(a) Schools
154. In describing the education programme a year ago, I said that the emphasis
in recent years had been on the provision of as many school places as possible to
meet rising demand. I added that increasingly we would need to concentrate on
improving quality.
155. Language training is particularly important in a city which is essentially
Chinese, but which is also an international commercial centre. We must continue our
efforts to improve the teaching of both Chinese and English. Next year each secondary
school with 18 classes or more will be provided with an additional graduate teacher
of Chinese. As for English, a two year pilot scheme to provide secondary schools
with native English speaking teachers recruited overseas was started in September
1987. Perhaps inevitably, there have been some teething problems with this ambitious
undertaking. The scheme is being monitored carefully throughout the trial period
before we take a decision on its future. Meanwhile, the number of local secondary
school English teachers to be trained in both Hong Kong and in the United Kingdom
will be doubled: some 150 teachers will take part in the scheme next year.
156. Mother tongue teaching enables many pupils to make better progress in
subjects where they might otherwise have difficulties. The Government is therefore
encouraging schools to switch to mother tongue teaching. Over 100 secondary schools
have opted to increase the use of Chinese as the medium of instruction this year.
A further 270 are expected to do so next year. In support of this change, publishers
are being helped to produce good quality Chinese textbooks and teachers are being
trained in how to make greater use of Chinese in the classroom. In switching to the
greater use of Chinese, we must not lose sight of the importance of a high standard
of English. So these schools are being provided with additional equipment and extra
English teachers.
157. Pressures on space in this crowded territory have meant that about 80% of
our primary schools are bisessional; some children attend only in the morning and
others in the afternoon. 460,000 primary school pupils are taught in this way. The
system was introduced in the 1950s to meet the high demand for school places by
maximising the use of school buildings. It has obvious disadvantages from the
educational viewpoint. Our aim is gradually to phase out bisessional schools. We
are now considering how, and by when, this can be done.
158. Experience in many developed countries has shown that private schools can
contribute to the overall standard of secondary education. They allow a greater
variety of curriculum and parental choice than is possible in a purely public
educational system. Unfortunately many private schools in Hong Kong, although they
have usefully filled a gap in our system, are not of a sufficiently high standard
to make such a contribution. The Education Commission have now put forward a range
of proposals aimed at improving the situation. These seek to raise the standard of
private schools where Government buys places and ultimately to replace the present
Bought Places Scheme with a system of direct subsidies to private schools which attain
a good standard. The aim is to provide a strong private sector to supplement our
existing system of aided and Government schools. In deciding how to implement these
recommendations, the Government will take account of what is said during the current
public consultation exercise.
159. In an important development earlier this year, the Government accepted the
Education Commission's recommendations for strengthening the standard 2 year sixth
form course. This will allow for a more varied and broadened curriculum, giving
students a greater choice and providing the possibility of a common entry point to
tertiary education. It will also provide a separate level of educational attainment
for students who advance beyond the Hong Kong Certificate of Education. A working
group, including representatives of all types of secondary schools and the tertiary
institutions, has now started work on implementing the recommendations.
(b) Higher Education
160. As Hong Kong continues to grow and prosper, there will be an increasing demand
for well educated young people to fill professional and managerial positions. We
will also need to train people to replace those who emigrate. To meet these demands,
it is important that the Government should continue to accord a very high priority
to the expansion of higher education. That is what we intend to do.
161. At present we have 36,000 full-time equivalent places in our tertiary
institutions. These provide first degree courses for about 6.5% of young people in
the relevant age group, and non-degree studies for another 4%. These percentages
are low by international standards. The number of places in tertiary institutions
therefore needs to be expanded steadily. We aim to provide 40,000 full-time
equivalent places in 1991; over 48,000 in 1994; 58,000 in 1997; and over 62,000 by
the turn of the century. In other words, tertiary education will be growing at a
rate of 5% a year. By the year 2000, more than 14% of young people in the relevant
age bracket will be able to pursue first degree courses and 6% to pursue studies at
the non-degree level. This will be an impressive achievement. It will be made
possible largely through the opening of the Hong Kong University of Science and
Technology in 1991.
(i) Structure of Tertiary Education
162. In its recent report, the Education Commission recommended a common entry
point to tertiary education after 2 years' sixth form education. It also recommended
that the length of first degree courses at all tertiary institutions should in
principle be the same for any given subject, regardless of the institution where it
is being studied. The Commission's recommendations have stimulated some lively
discussion during the four month public consultation period, which began in midJune. Few people have challenged the idea of a common entry point. Attention has
focussed on whether the ideal length for undergraduate courses is three or four years.
163. In its report the Commission made it clear that it did not believe an absolute
case could be made out either for three or four year courses, or indeed for any
particular course length. Institutions offering both three and four year courses
have proved themselves able to produce graduates of a good standard. The Commission
has recommended that whether particular courses should last three, four or more years
should be determined by the tertiary institutions themselves, subject to the approval
of funds. It has also given a clear recommendation that, in general, where more
resources for tertiary institutions are available, the first priority should be to
increase the number of students entering tertiary education each year.
164. The period of public consultation on the Commission's report ends this week.
Members of the Council have already requested a debate on the subject. The Government
will take careful account of all the points made in that debate and during the period
of public consultation. The decisions to be taken are important ones. The central
issue is how we can best use our resources to provide the form of education most suited
to Hong Kong's needs now and in the medium term future.
(ii) Open Learning Institute
165. We must also cater for the needs of those who have not had the opportunity
to benefit from higher education, as well as those who need to learn new skills. This
will be a role for the Open Learning Institute. The Planning Committee for the
Institute was appointed in January this year under the chairmanship of a member of
this Council, Mr CHENG Hon-kwan. It has already made good progress. A director will
be recruited in the near future and legislation establishing the institute will be
presented to this Council within the next few months. We expect that 3,000 students
will enrol in the autumn of 1989, and that this will increase to 20,000 students by
the mid 1990s.
(c) Technical Education and Industrial Training
166. Technical training is another important area of education. The Vocational
Training Council makes a major contribution to ensuring that we have an adequate
supply of trained manpower to sustain the growth and competitiveness
of our commerce and industry. It operates eight technical institutes with 62,000
full-time and part-time places at both craft and technician levels. More than 19,000
students graduate from the institutes each year. Three of these institutes are now
being expanded so that another 3,000 full-time and part-time places will be provided
by 1990.
167. In addition, the Council operates 16 industrial training centres with 20,000
places. A new training centre offering courses in wholesale, retail, import and
export trades, will open in 1990. I hope that employers will make full use of the
training facilities provided by the Council. Also that they will tell the Vocational
Training Council if they have specific training needs which are not being catered
for at present.
(11) CULTURE AND RECREATION
168. Hong Kong's growing prosperity means that more time and more resources are
available for cultural and recreational pursuits. Improving our facilities in these
fields is an important part of improving the quality of life for our community.
169. The Government's policy is to maximize the opportunities for people to take
part in cultural and recreational activities. We aim also to ensure that
performances of the highest standards are available for those who wish to watch them.
The importance that we attach to these aims is shown by the creation of the new policy
branch to which I have already referred. The branch will work closely with the two
Municipal Councils, which make a major contribution both to the arts and to the
provision of facilities for recreation and sports. I am pleased to say that this
contribution has recently been extended by the Urban Council taking on responsibility
for the Hong Kong Philharmonic, a move which will ensure the orchestra's financial
future.
170. When the Hong Kong Cultural Centre opens at the end of 1989, we will have
more than 21,000 seats in theatres and concert halls. This is more than 5 times the
number available in 1978, a rate of growth probably unmatched anywhere in the world.
We must now ensure that these seats are filled. This means organizing high quality
performances by both local and overseas artists.
171. The Government have accepted in principle some of the proposals made by the
Council for the Performing Arts to increase the level of Government funding for the
arts in the next financial year. But it is wrong for performing groups to rely too
heavily, or too completely, on public funds. We therefore aim to encourage the
private sector to increase its sponsorship of the arts. The Council for the
Performing Arts is being asked to put forward proposals to achieve this, drawing on
experience elsewhere in the world where private funding for the arts has proved
remarkably successful.
172. It is also time to take stock and to make plans for the future in the fields
of recreation and sport. A consultant has recently carried out a thorough review
of sports administration. His report was published in May. The Government are now
studying his proposals in the light of the public comments they have generated.
173. For many years we have concentrated on encouraging maximum public
participation in sports and recreation. We now need to provide more opportunities
for the development of those with particular skills and potential. To help in this,
a Sports Aid Foundation has been set up with the assistance of a $10 million donation
from the Royal Hong Kong Jockey Club. The first scholarships were awarded in June.
These will enable promising sportsmen and women to spend more time on their training
and so reach higher standards. Excellence of this sort not only benefits the
individual; it spreads out to raise standards in the community as a whole.
(12) IMPLEMENTATION OF THE JOINT DECLARATION
(a) Relations with China
174. We have continued to build up and develop contacts with China at all levels.
I visited Peking, Guangdong and Shanghai at the end of last year. The Chief Secretary
went to Peking and Chengdu in May 1988. Later this year I shall make a further visit
to Peking and go also to Fujian.
175. In June we were able to welcome the Director of the Hong Kong and Macau Office
of the State Council, Mr JI Pengfei, on a second visit to Hong Kong. I was also pleased
that Vice Premier TIAN Jiyun spent 5 days here in May. He is the most senior Chinese
leader to visit Hong Kong since 1949. I see such high level visits as being helpful
to both sides. They enable Chinese leaders to see for themselves how Hong Kong works;
and they enable many people in Hong Kong to meet senior Chinese leaders personally.
176. Our relations with our neighbours in both Guangdong and the Shenzhen Economic
Zone have continued to develop. I visited Shenzhen in March this year and the Mayor
of Shenzhen accepted my invitation to pay a return visit to Hong Kong in May. Both
official contacts, and the multitude of private contacts which are now a regular part
of our relationship with the Mainland of China, are important in building greater
understanding on both sides and laying lasting and mutually beneficial foundations
for the future.
(b) Draft Basic Law
177. A development of great importance to the future of Hong Kong was the
publication of the first draft of the Basic Law in April. This long and complex
document has emerged from a two-year drafting process in which Hong Kong people played
an important part. The Chinese Government have made it clear that they attach great
importance to the views of the people of Hong Kong on the draft. Mainland members
of the Drafting Committee have visited the territory twice. They have shown a welcome
willingness to listen to views on the first draft and to take them into account when
it is revised.
178. The second draft of the Basic Law will be put to the Standing Committee of
the National People's Congress next year and will then be published for further
consultation. The final version is scheduled for promulgation in 1990. The Basic
Law will set out the constitutional framework for the Hong Kong Special Administrative
Region for the 50 years after 1997. But before that date - indeed as soon as it is
published - it will be a crucial factor in maintaining confidence in Hong Kong's future
both here and overseas. The people of Hong Kong will be looking to the Basic Law
to state in clear and workable terms the details of the policies set out in the Joint
Declaration and its annexes, including the provision of a high degree of autonomy
under the formula of "one country two systems". So too will the international
business community whose investments are so important to Hong Kong.
(c) Joint Liaison Group/Land Commission
179. The Joint Liaison Group (JLG) and the Land Commission have both continued
to make good progress in implementing the Joint Declaration and have registered a
steady stream of practical achievements in their respective fields. I will list some
of these.
180. Through the work of the JLG there is now agreement on transitional
arrangements for all Hong Kong travel and identity documents, thus allowing documents
issued before 1997 to continue to be used after the establishment of the Hong Kong
SAR. Agreement has also been reached on Hong Kong's continued participation after
1997 in eight more international organisations, including the International Labour
Organisation, the World Health Organisation, the International Atomic Energy Agency
and Interpol.
181. As a result of agreement reached at the JLG, Hong Kong has concluded its own
Air Service Agreements with Switzerland and Canada. Other separate agreements are
being negotiated. Both sides have also reached agreement on the principles
underlying future arrangements for the surrender of fugitive offenders, and on
improvements to the terms of service of the Judiciary, which have implications beyond
1997. They have also agreed that a new unit of the police force, to which I have
referred earlier, should in future take over responsibility for preventing illegal
entry into Hong Kong.
182. One important new area that the JLG has been considering is the localisation
of UK legislation which now applies to Hong Kong. Changes will have to be made so
that Hong Kong will have its own laws covering the same ground as the existing UK
legislation. Agreement has been reached on the principles which should govern the
localisation process. Members will be asked soon to consider the first item of this
localised legislation, which deals with Admiralty jurisdiction.
(13) CONCLUSION
183. I have tried to paint a picture of Hong Kong as it is: a dynamic, bustling
society with a remarkable record of economic growth an