(1) INTRODUCTION
Since I last addressed the Council at the beginning of a new Session, we have been
through difficult times together. We have all been forcefully reminded how vulnerable
Hong Kong is to developments which occur outside our borders over which we have no
control.
2. In May and June, confidence in Hong Kong was badly shaken by the tragic events
in China. People became more nervous about their future. Investors have shown signs
of being more cautious in assessing the territory's prospects. So we have a new
challenge to meet and new problems to overcome. But this is not the first crisis that
Hong Kong has had to confront. When we have faced difficulties in the past we have
emerged with new confidence and strength. Already there are ample signs that Hong
Kong is showing its usual resilience; that we are facing up to our problems and finding
solutions to them.
3. In my address today, I do not propose to review all areas of government activity.
Instead, I shall look back briefly at the main events of the past year, assess where
we stand now and set out the ways in which your Government proposes to build for the
future. During the next few weeks, policy Secretaries will be making more detailed
statements on government policies falling within their own areas of responsibility.
(2) HONG KONG TODAY
(a) The Effect of Events in China
4. The tragic events in China had a traumatic effect on Hong Kong: an effect made
all the more direct by the impact of television. Much has been said and written about
those events, both at the time and since. I do not intend to add to it now. The important
point for us is that what happened in China created increased concern about the
arrangements for Hong Kong's future. A mark of this was the significant increase in
applications for emigration and the widespread demands for the right of abode in the
United Kingdom. We have also seen intensified discussion about the right pace of
progress towards a directly elected legislature and calls for the early introduction
of a Bill of Rights. And the Basic Law draft has come under renewed scrutiny.
5. Despite this uncertainty and worry on the political front, our economy showed
itself to be robust. Once again, we have been reminded how much our survival depends
on the resilience of our businessmen and our workforce. The tourist industry was
affected, largely because of the wholesale cancellation of tours to China. But our
manufacturing sector was relatively unscathed; and economic links with China,
especially with Guangdong Province, have remained strong. Our newly-reorganized
financial institutions weathered the crisis and emerged with their reputations
enhanced. Our linked exchange rate system proved its worth at a testing time.
6. The overall economic effect on Hong Kong of the events in China will probably
be a slight check to the rate of our economic expansion. The Financial Secretary's
earlier estimate was that our GDP would grow by 6% this year, compared to 7% in 1988.
This forecast has now been adjusted slightly downwards. But, even with this slightly
lower forecast, Hong Kong should still enjoy a healthy level of growth by world
standards.
7. On 1 July 1997, Hong Kong will become a Special Administrative Region of the
People's Republic of China. That is a fact that we must face, and face in a clear-headed
way. Hong Kong is linked to China but, in another important sense, separate from
it. That will continue to be the case in the future, under the concept of "one country,
two systems". We have our own laws and freedoms which we cherish. They must not be
eroded. Equally, we should use them with a sense of responsibility and selfrestraint. For many years our community has recognized the importance of not becoming
directly involved in China's often complicated domestic politics. At the same time,
given both the economic and political realities, there is every reason to expand our
already close economic links with the mainland. We can strengthen the basis of our
special future political status by the contribution that we make to the modernization
of the Chinese economy and by the access to world markets, advanced technology and
expertise that we can provide for China.
8. The Chinese Government has recently given repeated assurances that its policy
towards Hong Kong has not changed. It has also stressed that economic reform and
openness to the outside world remain fundamental priorities. Both of these are
important and welcome messages for Hong Kong. We for our part have made it clear to
the Chinese Government that action is needed to restore confidence in the arrangements
for Hong Kong's future. We need to restore mutual trust as the necessary cornerstone
for the unprecedented political experiment that will begin in 1997, the foundations
for which must be laid securely in the next eight years.
(b) Emigration
9. In the meantime, it is clear that more Hong Kong people now feel a need to hedge
their bets or seek insurance policies overseas. The Government predicted earlier this
year that 42 000 people would leave Hong Kong in 1989. This estimate remains valid.
But emigration levels are likely to be higher in the next few years. As always,
precisely how many will leave depends not only on events here and in China but also
on the immigration policies of the countries that people wish to go to.
10. I have said many times that the Government will never prevent people from leaving
Hong Kong. I repeat that now. I fully understand the dilemma that many families face
in deciding whether to go or to stay. But I cannot pretend that I like seeing so many
skilled and talented people leaving Hong Kong. Not only does Hong Kong need them,
but I am also well aware that many of them do not really want to go. We all know of
families who would prefer to stay in Hong Kong but who have been uprooted and even
separated for long periods. I hope that many of them will return to Hong Kong and
contribute to its future once they have obtained the security that they are seeking.
11. No matter how many people emigrate, the bulk of the population of Hong Kong --
by then some 6 million people -- will still be here in 1997 and afterwards. These
are the people for whom we must build a future. They are Hong Kong's future. Many
of them will step readily into the gaps left by emigrants. Others will need more time,
training or experience before they can do so. But, with an expanding and ever more
sophisticated economy, it may prove difficult to fill all the gaps from within Hong
Kong. Increased levels of emigration will almost certainly mean that we will need
to import more skills and experience from outside the territory, at least until our
efforts to develop our own resources take effect.
12. The first potential source of these skills is of course our former residents,
the people who already know Hong Kong. The Government is already recruiting from the
ethnic Chinese communities in the United States, Canada and Australia. Many companies
in the private sector are doing the same. But we do not only welcome those who have
left and who wish to return. We also welcome anyone who wants to come and help us
build the future of this territory, if they have the skills and experience that we
need. Hong Kong is a city in which people of all nationalities can play a part. We
must be ready, if the need arises, to find replacements for our home-grown talent
in the international market-place. And we must ensure that our immigration policies
are flexible enough to permit this.
(c) Relations with the United Kingdom
13. Another feature of the past year has been the evolution of our relationship with
the United Kingdom. Contrary to some popular myths, this Government has for many years
been left essentially free to get on with the job of running Hong Kong by itself.
We have sole responsibility for our internal affairs, such as education, social
welfare and medical services. For the past 20 years or so, we have made all our own
policy decisions in other important areas such as the economy, trade and finance.
14. As a result, we have developed some interests which are separate from those of
the United Kingdom. Sometimes we have found ourselves on opposite sides of the
negotiating table. In the past year or two, for instance, we have had to negotiate
about the relative shares of costs incurred by the British garrison in Hong Kong and
we have had discussions about the part the United Kingdom plays in resettling
Vietnamese refugees from Hong Kong. When this happens, you can be sure that your
Government argues hard on Hong Kong's behalf.
15. We have also put forward a clear Hong Kong case on the nationality issue. I have
said that I fully understand and sympathize with the widespread hope in Hong Kong
that Britain would grant the right of abode in the United Kingdom to all Hong Kong
British nationals. I have also said that, in my view, such a move, if it were possible,
would have a very positive effect on confidence in Hong Kong, and that the number
who would actually leave would be small.
16. The British Government has said that it does not believe it is possible to grant
the right of abode in Britain to all Hong Kong British nationals. Instead it has
promised a scheme under which the right of abode in the United Kingdom will be granted
to some people in Hong Kong in a way designed to encourage them to stay in the territory.
We have been assured that work is going ahead as fast as it can on such a scheme.
I hope that the details will be announced as soon as possible. To have the effect
we all want on maintaining Hong Kong's economic growth and social stability, the
scheme will need to cover three important points. It will need to be as generous
as possible; it will need to minimize divisiveness, so far as possible; and it will
need to ensure that those covered can acquire the right of abode in the United Kingdom
without having to leave Hong Kong.
17. I very much hope that the scheme, when it is announced, will help to provide
greater confidence and stability in our community. Meanwhile it cannot be right to
say that we want either everything or nothing: a scheme that provides something must
be better than no scheme at all.
(d) Vietnamese Boat People
18. Another problem which has been much on the minds of all of us this year is the
continuing inflow of boat people from Vietnam. Since my address to this Council last
October, some 34 000 Vietnamese have arrived in this small and crowded territory.
This is the highest number in any year since 1979. The strain on our resources, and
on our patience and compassion, has been enormous. But we have coped. We have housed,
fed and cared for all those who have come. We have turned no one away. This is something
of which we can all be proud.
19. Many people outside Hong Kong do not seem to realize what a burden the continuing
flow from Vietnam creates for us. I myself am only too conscious that it has severely
strained the tolerance of our community. I sympathize with those who argue that we
have now done enough. It is not by choice that the Government spends increasing amounts
of public funds, and uses increasing amounts of scarce land, on housing and looking
after a seemingly endless stream of arrivals from Vietnam.
20. Those who come here do not seek a home in Hong Kong. Their goal is elsewhere:
in particular, the United States. But they have little prospect of ever getting there,
or anywhere else. Over 80% of the Vietnamese now arriving in Hong Kong do not meet
United States resettlement criteria.
21. During the past year, the Government has strongly and consistently argued that
the only solution to this human tragedy is that those who are defined as refugees
must be resettled overseas, and those who do not meet these criteria must go back
to Vietnam. This is a view which is shared by a number of voluntary agencies which
have worked most closely with the Vietnamese, including Oxfam, Save the Children Fund
and the British Refugee Council. Hong Kong has taken the lead in introducing a
screening policy as a first step towards putting this solution into effect. Our lead
has been followed elsewhere in Southeast Asia and now, most recently, by Japan.
22. The Geneva Conference in June endorsed our policy of screening and agreed on
principles for the repatriation of non-refugees. But it did not take the essential
next step of endorsing the repatriation of all those screened out as non-refugees.
In effect it asked us to make further efforts to encourage these people to return
home voluntarily. We have tried this and will continue to do so. The more people
who return home voluntarily to Vietnam the better. But the number of people willing
to volunteer is limited. Since November last year, only 264 Vietnamese have actually
returned to their homeland. Further groups are due to go soon. But voluntary
repatriation alone is clearly not the answer.
23. At the international conference in June, I warned that if proper arrangements
were not made to return home those found not to be refugees, Hong Kong could not
continue indefinitely to play its part by providing first asylum. But we must not
deceive ourselves into thinking that abandoning this principle is an easy, or cost
free, option. We would have to face the hard choice of what to do if future arrivals
sank their boats when they were refused permission to land here. Would we, as a
community, be willing to let people drown? Surely not. We would also have to face
an international outcry which would put at risk our prospects for resettling the 13
000 refugees now in Hong Kong, and which would also affect international attitudes
towards Hong Kong in other areas, such as trade, where we have important interests.
24. I remain convinced that the policy we have adopted is the right one, and that
it will eventually bear fruit. At the steering committee meeting in Geneva next week,
we will be making very strongly the point that screening and repatriation are
inseparable. It is only by introducing a scheme for orderly return that we will solve
the problem of disorderly arrivals. The thousands that are being screened out as
non-refugees must go back to their homes in Vietnam. It is only by finding a way to
return non-refugees home that we can do anything for those who are genuine refugees.
We are determined to put in place satisfactory arrangements for both resettlement
and repatriation. In the meantime, I call on all members of our community to have
patience, and to remember that the Vietnamese are fellow human beings. Many Hong Kong
families, after all, know what it is like to uproot themselves from their homes and
seek a better future elsewhere.
(e) The Civil Service
25. The continuing influx of Vietnamese has imposed a great strain on the Civil
Service as a whole, and not only the Correctional Services Department, the police
and the garrison who have borne the main brunt. I doubt if many members of our community
realize how many departments are involved in one way or another in receiving the
arrivals, processing them, feeding them, looking after them and building, operating
and guarding centres for them. Many civil servants have been working long hours in
difficult circumstances and under great pressure for the past two years. They get
little recognition for this, and a great deal of criticism, both in Hong Kong and
overseas. They deserve better. I am sure that Members of this Council would wish
to join me in recording appreciation for their efforts.
26. But this is by no means the only strain on our civil servants. They have for
many years played the leading role in the Government of Hong Kong. Inevitably this
role has changed as our system of representative government has developed. Civil
servants have had to adapt to this change at a time when, like the rest of the community,
they have their own personal worries about the future. As a community we take our
Civil Service for granted. But, from my personal experience of the workings of other
governments, I can say without qualification that Hong Kong is well served. During
the rapid constitutional changes that will take place in the next decade, we will
depend on the Civil Service for continuity and stability. So now, more than ever,
we must ensure that it remains as stable and efficient as it has always been.
(3) HONG KONG'S PLACE IN THE WORLD
27. Hong Kong is now the world's eleventh largest trading economy. In the past, as
the territory developed, we were somewhat hesitant about involving ourselves in
international affairs. But, within the limits of our autonomy, we have now begun to
play a role in the world that reflects Hong Kong's economic importance. It is right
that we should do so.
(a) Hong Kong as a Regional Centre
28. The Asia-Pacific region contains the fastest growing economies in the world. Ours
is one of them. 60% of our total trade is now with Asia and Australasia. And we play
an important role in building up trade within the region. Goods going through Hong
Kong from one part of the region to another, not counting China, have grown by 45%
in the last year.
29. Our financial services sector has also become increasingly important in regional
terms. Because of the time difference, business can be done here when London and New
York are closed. We now have 135 overseas incorporated banks in Hong Kong. Eleven
of these were given new licences this year. Twelve overseas securities companies and
commodities trading companies have also set up business here this year.
30. Hong Kong has many advantages as a regional base -- its location; good
communications; an efficient and apolitical administration; an impartial system of
justice; a well-educated and efficient workforce; and all the conveniences of a modern
city. Add to this the magnificent new Convention and Exhibition Centre -- the largest
in Asia -- which will officially be opened next month by His Royal Highness the Prince
of Wales, and one can see how Hong Kong is increasingly becoming a major regional
centre for trade, finance and communications. So it is not surprising that many
companies have chosen to base their regional offices here. For example, 10 of our
overseas incorporated banks operate as regional headquarters. So do many other
international companies. We welcome this. Indeed we hope that others will follow suit.
(b) Hong Kong: the Gateway to China
31. I have already referred to Hong Kong's role as a gateway to China. Statistics
can be dull; but in this area they are startling and revealing. Our re-exports
increased by 51% in value in the single year 1987 to 1988. Almost a half of these
originated in China. And over one-third went to China. China has used Hong Kong as
a gateway for its exports for many years. But it is only relatively recently that
we have played such an important role as a channel for its imports. Our Asia-Pacific
neighbours have been especially quick to see Hong Kong's potential in this area. For
example, in 1988 about one quarter of all Japanese exports to China were routed through
Hong Kong.
32. Hong Kong also plays a key role in foreign investment in China. Up to 1988, some
70% of all such investment was by companies incorporated or registered in Hong Kong.
Not all of these were Hong Kong companies. Many were foreign ones which had chosen
to use Hong Kong as their base for this investment. And why not? We are not only on
China's doorstep. We also have unrivalled expertise in dealing with Chinese officials
and enterprises, particularly in Guangdong Province, and the full range of backup services that an investor needs.
33. For many years to come, China will continue to be an important market for foreign
exporters and investors. And Hong Kong will continue to be the best means of access
to it. By playing an intermediary role, we can also continue to be of benefit to China.
We can provide investment, foreign exchange and expertise to help the Chinese economy
continue to expand and develop.
(c) Participation in International Organizations
34. Hong Kong naturally wishes to play an active role in international organizations
that help to shape the world we live in and that deal with issues that affect our
own interests. In doing this, we have devoted most of our effort to economic and trade
matters. Hong Kong became a separate contracting party to the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in April 1986. We play our part in it vigorously and
responsibly. Hong Kong officials serve as chairmen or members of a range of GATT bodies
and dispute settlement panels. Our role as a major trading economy; our determination
to uphold the principles of free trade; and our willingness to act as a link between
developed and developing nations have also enabled us to play a significant role in
the important Uruguay round of multilateral trade negotiations.
35. Apart from the GATT, Hong Kong also takes part in some 40 other international
organizations at government level. We have made good progress in the Joint Liaison
Group in making sure that Hong Kong will continue to be represented in these
international organizations after 1997. In addition, Hong Kong is also represented
by private individuals or community bodies in hundreds of non-governmental
organizations in the business, sporting and cultural fields. Our voice is now being
heard more often and to better effect.
(d) Hong Kong's Image in the World
36. For many years, Hong Kong's international image was that of a producer of cheap,
low quality goods. We fought very hard to overcome that image, with considerable
success. People began to see Hong Kong for what it is -- a bustling, modern city of
successful entrepreneurs.
37. But images are often created by events beyond our control. When the name of Hong
Kong is mentioned nowadays, far too many people probably think either of 1997 or of
Vietnamese boat people. We must do what we can to project a more balanced and more
positive image of this exciting city. We must emphasize the progress we have made,
in every field from the economy to housing. We must draw attention to the attractions
of Hong Kong today, for its own people and for those from overseas. And we must, above
all, tell the world what we are doing ourselves to build for our future. At the
end of this week, I shall myself be leaving for Washington, Los Angeles and San
Francisco as part of the Government's effort to spread these messages to the widest
possible audience.
38. This is not just a job for the Government. All of us can act as ambassadors for
Hong Kong. The Trade Development Council, the Hong Kong Tourist Association and our
chambers of commerce play an important part in making Hong Kong's attractions known
to a wider audience. This message has particular force when it comes from foreign
businessmen who themselves live and work in Hong Kong. Many have been willing to
help in this way. I welcome their efforts. We also want to draw on their experience
to involve them more in the life of our community. As part of this, I have approved
the setting up of an international business committee, to be chaired by the Chief
Secretary, on which all the main overseas chambers of commerce will be represented.
This will provide a valuable means of tapping the talents of overseas businessmen
for the benefit of the whole community.
(4) BUILDING FOR THE FUTURE: POLITICAL
39. In the next decade, Hong Kong faces a period of unprecedented political and
constitutional change. We must manage this without endangering our stability. We must
continue steadily to develop our own institutions in which our community has
confidence.
(a) The Development of Representative Government
40. During the past few years there has been vigorous debate in Hong Kong about how
quickly we should develop our system of representative government. Your Government
has always believed that political development should be based on the widest possible
support in the community. We have indeed sometimes been criticized by those who would
like to go faster than this principle allows.
41. This year a number of models for the future composition of this Council have been
put forward. One of these was the result of lengthy discussion by the non-official
Members of this Council and the Executive Council. These models have stimulated a
great deal of debate in the community. This is a good thing. The issues involved
are vital for the future of Hong Kong. Out of this debate I hope that a broadly held
Hong Kong view will emerge. This would help the drafters of the Basic Law, when they
meet later this year and early in 1990, to carry out the important task of formulating
the structure of Hong Kong's political system in and after 1997. The Government would
also wish to respond positively to such a view when we take decisions on what further
changes should be made to the composition of this Council in 1991.
42. Before taking these decisions, we will consider all aspects of the composition
of this Council: the number of official and appointed members, whether there should
be a further increase in the number of members elected by functional constituencies
and the number of directly elected seats. We shall have in mind the widely-held view
in the community that there should be a somewhat faster rate of development in 1991
than previously envisaged; and also the fact that by 1995 all members of the Council
will be elected by one means or another. We must prepare for that situation well in
advance.
(b) The Basic Law
43. The second draft of the Basic Law was published in February. It was generally
seen as a considerable improvement on its predecessor. Careful note had clearly been
taken of points made in Hong Kong during the consultation period last year. Recent
events in China have refocussed public attention on some parts of the Basic Law. I
have already referred to the various models that have been put forward with regard
to the composition of the legislature. Another area which has been the subject of
much debate is the relationship between the Central Authorities and the SAR Government.
I hope that the people of Hong Kong will use this final period of consultation to
put forward their views on the draft of a document which will be of great importance
to their future.
44. The Chinese Government have made it clear that they intend to publish the Basic
Law next spring. Its contents will have a significant impact on how people, both
locally and overseas, view the future of Hong Kong. A Basic Law that meets the main
points of concern in Hong Kong can go a long way to restoring confidence in the future
of the territory. I therefore urge the Basic Law drafters to be receptive to the views
expressed on the draft in Hong Kong during the current consultation period and to
take them carefully into account. There is a great deal at stake.
(c) Bill of Rights
45. In Hong Kong we have always taken for granted the basic social and political
freedoms that we enjoy. These are backed up by many different provisions of statutory
and common law. In addition, the International Covenants on Civil and Political Rights
and on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights have been extended to Hong Kong since
1976. And their continued application beyond 1997 is guaranteed in the Joint
Declaration.
46. It is clear that there is now strong support in the community for these freedoms
to be entrenched through the enactment of a Bill of Rights. The Government has been
considering what form such a Bill might take. We propose that it should give effect
in local law to the relevant provisions of the International Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights. This means that if anyone believes that their civil or political
rights, as defined in the covenant, have been violated they will be able to seek
redress in the courts. We aim to publish a White Bill for public consultation by
the end of this year and to introduce draft legislation into this Council by July
1990. Within this timescale there will not be time for a comprehensive review of
all our existing laws to remove any areas of doubt about their full compatibility
with the Bill of Rights. To avoid any unnecessary uncertainties the draft Bill will
provide for a limited period after its enactment during which existing laws cannot
be challenged against the standard of the new Bill.
47. The provisions of the other international covenant, the Covenant on Economic,
Social and Cultural Rights, are different in nature. They are in the form of
objectives to be achieved progressively and, generally speaking, are not rights which
individuals could easily enforce in the courts. For these reasons they are not well
suited for inclusion in a Bill of Rights designed to give people the right of direct
action in the courts. We are of course fully committed to the objectives of the
covenant and seek to implement them through our existing legislation and policies.
(d) The Joint Liaison Group
48. Much of the detailed work on implementing the Joint Declaration takes place in
the Joint Liaison Group (JLG). The achievements of the JLG during the past four years
have contributed significantly to the maintenance of confidence in Hong Kong. They
have only been possible because of the close contacts and co-operation between the
two sides. Inevitably, those contacts were temporarily suspended in June. The group
has recently resumed its activities and will now meet again in December. I hope that
it will then, as previously, produce a steady stream of solid work. Much remains to
be done before 1997.
49. The confidentiality of proceedings in the JLG has often led to misunderstanding
in Hong Kong about its role and activities. From time to time it has been suggested
that the British and Chinese Governments take decisions in the JLG in which Hong Kong
plays no part. I can assure you that this is not the case. Two members of the Hong
Kong Administration sit as members of the British side of the JLG and many more attend
its meetings. All subjects on the agenda of JLG meetings are thoroughly discussed
beforehand between the British and Hong Kong Governments. And the Executive Council
is kept fully informed of all proceedings and is consulted on all major issues of
policy. Hong Kong makes a full contribution to the work of the JLG. We will continue
to do so.
(5) BUILDING FOR THE FUTURE: SOCIAL
50. In the final analysis, the future of Hong Kong rests with its people. Your
Government attaches a great deal of importance to ensuring that Hong Kong remains
an attractive place to live in, with social services that meet the needs of our society.
We do not intend to provide a western-style welfare state. To do so risks encouraging
a mentality of dependency that is alien to the Hong Kong way of life. Instead, we
concentrate much of our efforts, and of our available resources, on the young people
of Hong Kong, who represent our future, and on those who cannot fend for themselves.
(a) Education
51. During the past 20 years, as Hong Kong has prospered, the demand and need for
better education has grown with enormous speed. In our community, the first goal that
parents set themselves, as their living standards improve, is to give their children
the best possible educational opportunities. In the 1960s, most parents were keen
simply to provide some sort of schooling for their children. In 1971, the Government
was able to provide free primary education for all. In the 1970s expectations
increased; and in 1979 free, compulsory education was extended to include secondary
forms one to three.
52. The ambition of ordinary families today is that their children should do well
enough in examinations to be able to go on to some kind of post-secondary education.
At the same time, the development of our economy means that we need an increasing
number of young people trained beyond secondary level. It is clear that we are not
at present able to meet the full extent of this demand. As many Hong Kong students
now go abroad for tertiary education as stay in Hong Kong. Another factor is emigration.
We must now plan on the assumption that we will lose a proportion of our future
graduates abroad.
53. The Government therefore proposes to upgrade substantially the targets that we
set ourselves only last year. These would have meant that in the year 1995, for example,
there would be first-year, first-degree places for nearly 13% of the relevant age
group, compared with about 7% now. This was an ambitious target. But it is now clear
that we must be even more ambitious. I have asked the University and Polytechnic Grants
Committee (UPGC) to increase the planned provision of first-year, first-degree places
from about 7 000 next year to about 15 000 in 1995. That means places for over 18%
of the relevant age group. This will not be at the expense of sub-degree places. These
will continue to be maintained at the previous planning level of 5 000.
54. This increase would give a total of 67 000 tertiary places in 1995. That would
provide places for nearly 25% of the relevant age group, compared with under 14% now.
The UPGC is now working out how to meet these new targets. Amongst other things, we
will probably have to bring forward plans for expanding our existing universities
and increase the percentage of degree places offered at our polytechnics.
55. At the school level, there has been a great deal of concern in the community that
the introduction of mass education has been at the expense of standards. There is
some truth in this. In future we shall aim to concentrate on improving quality rather
than giving top priority to increasing numbers. Major measures over the next few years
which have already been announced include providing Secondary VII classes in all types
of secondary school and bringing in 'A' level examinations in Chinese. In my address
to this Council last year, I mentioned the desirability of working towards whole-day
schooling for all primary classes. This remains our long-term objective. But, given
our other educational priorities, resource constraints and demographic trends, we
need to be realistic about how quickly we can achieve it. Our first priority will
therefore be a phased programme of converting senior primary classes to whole-day
operation.
56. We are an international trading centre where the ability to use language well
is a key ingredient of success. One important objective of our school system must
therefore be to improve the standards of both English and Chinese. The Government
has already taken several significant initiatives. These have included sending large
numbers of local teachers overseas for immersion courses in the English language and
introducing a scheme to enable schools to employ expatriate teachers of English. But
these measures are not enough. We need urgently to devise a strategy that will deal
with the difficult problems of the medium of instruction and the quality of language
teaching. The Education Department will soon publish for public consultation the
report of a working group which has looked into these issues. After members of the
public have had an opportunity to comment, proposals will be put to the Board of
Education and the Education Commission early next year.
57. In Hong Kong private secondary schools have generally not had the resources to
compete with the public sector. This has meant a lack of variety and flexibility
in the educational system. Good private schools can give special emphasis to
specific areas such as languages or art. They also provide for the possibility of
greater choice within the educational system. The Government believes it important
to increase parental choice by encouraging the development of a healthy private school
sector in Hong Kong. To help achieve this, we will introduce a new Direct Subsidy
Scheme. Schools which meet certain criteria will be eligible to join the scheme,
and will receive government assistance at a rate which will depend on their fee income,
with more going to those which charge less. They will, at the same time, be able
to retain a great deal of freedom in deciding on curriculum, fees, management and
the selection of pupils. The Government will phase out bought places in private
schools by the end of the 1990s. In the meantime, we will improve the standards of
these schools so that, when the time comes, they will have a good chance of joining
the new subsidy scheme.
58. We agree with the Education Commission that pre-primary education must be seen
as a desirable rather than an essential part of our education system. But we see
a clear need to improve standards of teaching in kindergartens. We therefore propose
to improve the basic training course for kindergarten teachers and introduce a new
fee remission scheme. This will replace the existing scheme of fee assistance and
allow additional help to be given to less well-off parents who have children in
kindergartens.
59. In laying down broad programmes for improvements to our educational system we
must not overlook the special difficulties that individual schools face. Some for
instance have severe problems of noise. We have already sound-proofed and airconditioned 37 schools affected by aircraft. This year, we are starting a new
programme that will cover a total of 117 aided and government schools affected by
unacceptable levels of traffic noise. We aim to complete it during the early 1990s.
60. Education is expensive and heavily subsidized by the community. The proposals
I have outlined, especially for the further expansion of the tertiary sector,
inevitably mean that some other sectors will, for the time being, have to take a lower
priority. In practical terms, this means slower progress in some other areas which,
however desirable in themselves, have to take their place in the queue. Decisions
on the right allocation of public money are never easy. But I hope that Members of
this Council, and the community as a whole, will agree that the proposals I have
outlined are the right mix for meeting our more pressing needs within the resources
available.
61. Some 80% of those who will make up Hong Kong's workforce in the year 2000 have
already completed their education. So the provision of training for those already
at work is also an important priority. Many potentially useful technologies are not
yet being applied in our industries. The Government proposes to establish a training
fund to encourage employers to give managers the opportunity to learn about these
new technologies. This fund will include contributions from various sources,
including the private sector. It will provide loans to cover the cost of local
extension training and overseas working attachments. I hope employers will make good
use of it.
(b) Medical and Health Services
62. The medical and health field is another area where, in the past, we concentrated
on meeting basic needs. We achieved remarkable successes. Life expectancy in Hong
Kong for both men and women is now higher than in many advanced countries, including
the United States and the United Kingdom. Our infant mortality rates are lower than
in either. Now we should raise our sights. Our new priority must be to improve the
quality of service. Our public health service is heavily subsidized, and our
professional medical staff are dedicated and hard-working. But our hospitals are
overcrowded, and there are long queues at our clinics. We do not always provide our
community with the range of services that they need. In important areas like mental
health and geriatric care, our standards fall below our aspirations.
63. The lesson of public health services all over the world is that increased
expenditure does not necessarily translate into higher standards. What is really
important is the way the money is used and how well the facilities are managed. It
makes no sense to have some publicly funded hospitals overflowing and others with
spare capacity. Or to have hospitals where there are camp beds in some wards and
empty beds in others. The Hospital Authority, which we aim to establish by April next
year, will be well placed to ensure that the money we spend on our public hospitals
-- $5 billion this year -- is used in the most effective way. By bringing government
and subvented hospitals together within a single integrated system, the authority
will be able to make sure that the best possible use is made of the facilities that
each hospital can offer. Quality of management will be particularly important
because of the size of the hospital service. By the end of next year the authority
will be responsible for more than 22 000 beds, including almost 1 000 in the first
two phases of the new Tuen Mun Hospital and the Queen Mary Hospital extension.
64. Two other current projects should help to improve the quality of our medical
services. First, a working party has been set up to review our primary health care
services, and in particular to consider which of these is best carried out by the
Government and which by the private sector. It will report by the end of 1990.
Second, the Government has decided to establish a Hong Kong Academy of Medicine. This
will be a statutory body with authority to set standards in post-graduate medical
education; to decide the content and length of training courses; and to accredit those
who have passed the required examinations. Hong Kong will then have its own system
for ensuring that doctors are properly trained and locally qualified in the various
clinical specialities.
(c) Social Welfare
65. Since the publication of the 1979 White Paper on Social Welfare, we have made
good progress in developing our policies and services to meet the needs and
expectations of our community. We have a comprehensive safety net to make sure that
no one in our community need fall below basic living standards. We have a wide range
of services from day care centres to residential homes.
66. It is now time to take stock of the progress we have made and to make sure that
our policies and standards continue to meet the needs of Hong Kong into the 1990s
and beyond. I have, therefore, asked the Secretary for Health and Welfare to launch
a review of our social welfare services in conjunction with the subvented sector.
The Government will then in the second half of next year publish a White Paper setting
out our proposals on the way forward. In the meantime, additional funds will be
available this year to reduce case loads in family service centres and social security
field units operated by the Social Welfare Department.
67. One problem we face is a shortage of trained social workers. A good many
professional staff have emigrated. To fill the gaps, a number of measures are already
being taken, for example substantially increasing the intake of social work students
into our tertiary institutions. But, in planning improvements to our services, we
must take care not to place impossible burdens on our existing staff, both in the
government and subvented sectors. They already have very heavy workloads.
68. Separately, we will continue to develop our rehabilitation services with the aim,
where possible, of integrating the disabled into the community. The objective will
be steadily to improve the quality of services while, at the same time, extending
them to cover more of those in need. Particular emphasis is now being placed on
employment for disabled people so that they can, to the greatest extent possible,
earn their own living. Funds will be made available to provide additional teachers
in schools for the disabled so as to expand the curriculum and include career
counselling and civic education. In April 1990, we will also be extending the higher
rate of disability allowance to those aged 15 and under who require constant care
and attention. This will go some way to recognizing the additional financial burdens
faced by the parents of these young people.
(d) Youth
69. One quarter of our population is under the age of 25. These young people will
provide our future leadership and workforce. To help us meet their needs and respond
to their aspirations, the Government proposes to set up early next year a Commission
on Youth. This will be chaired by a non-official and will include senior government
officials and a wide range of other members from the community, including young people.
The commission's terms of reference will be to advise the Government on how best to
implement our objectives for the development of youth services. We believe that we
should develop what will amount to a charter for youth which will give our young people
the best possible educational opportunities; promote physical and mental fitness;
give young people opportunities to gain international experience and thereby broaden
their outlook on life; improve their civic awareness and encourage them to participate
in community affairs; and promote youth leadership training.
70. In the year ahead, I hope to see progress in another area: sports. Already some
Hong Kong sportsmen and women are beginning to make their presence felt in
international competitions. But so far our achievements in sport lag behind those
in other areas. It is time we made an effort to raise our standards. A major step
forward will be the creation of a Sports Development Board. Its executive director
has already been appointed. So have the members of the provisional board. Its first
priority will be to work out a territory-wide strategy for sport. The aim will be
to get the right balance between the twin goals of excellence and mass participation.
(e) Housing
71. The availability of good, reasonably-priced housing is a key factor in creating
the stable yet dynamic society that we want to see in Hong Kong. Our record of providing
subsidized housing stands comparison with anywhere else in the world. The Housing
Authority now manages 723 000 flats and is the landlord for 47% of our population.
In the last financial year, it completed over 50 000 flats, a record for a single
year. This year, it is likely to set a new record yet again, with an estimated
production of 53 000 flats. These are remarkable figures by any standard. They will
be achieved without any sacrifice to the quality of accommodation and environment
provided.
72. In every community, ordinary families dream of owning their own homes.
Communities are healthier and more stable when home ownership is widespread. Helping
Hong Kong families to become home owners is an important part of the Long Term Housing
Strategy. At present, only 15% of our stock of public housing is owned by the family
living in it. But this figure is set to increase. This year, one-third of the new
Housing Authority flats will be for sale rather than for rent. The authority has also
decided recently to increase the scope of its Home Purchase Loan Scheme so that more
of its tenants will receive larger interest-free loans to buy flats in the private
sector. It is considering another bold initiative: the feasibility of selling some
of its newer flats to the families who are now renting them. At present, 41% of Hong
Kong families own their own homes. As a result of the authority's imaginative ideas,
we can expect the number to rise steadily during the years ahead.
73. The Housing Authority aims to produce 527 000 public housing flats for rental
and sale between now and the year 2001. This is an ambitious target. The Government
will do its best to find the new land required and to provide the necessary
infrastructure. Our planners and engineers are hard at work already. Maintaining our
housing programme will remain an important priority for the Government.
(f) The Environment
74. Last October I spoke at some length about the various pollution problems that
we face and our determination to tackle them. A White Paper on Pollution, published
in June, set out in detail proposals for a comprehensive programme of action over
the next 10 years. We have already begun to implement these. The Planning,
Environment and Lands Branch, which came into being last month, will give a fresh
impetus to our efforts to improve the environment.
75. I would like to emphasize the importance that I personally, and the Government
as a whole, attach to dealing with the problem of pollution. It is not just a matter
of keeping Hong Kong clean, important though that is. Pollution can, and often does,
cause damage to our health and to that of our children. We must bring it under control.
The fact that we propose to spend at least $20 billion in the next decade shows how
important this objective is. Much of this money will be spent on the complete
overhaul of our sewerage system and the construction of three massive landfill sites
and associated refuse transfer stations.
76. Money alone cannot solve our pollution problems. Nor can the Government alone.
Each individual member of this community has a vital contribution to make in creating
an environment that is safe and pleasant. Until recently, far too many of us in Hong
Kong were unaware of the threats to our environment. We placed far too little
importance on protecting it. This attitude is already changing. It must change further.
The Government has given a lead. But the community must also play its part.
77. On 19 July, during the debate on the White Paper, several Members of this Council
stressed the need to improve environmental education. The Government has taken this
advice to heart. This year, apart from pushing ahead vigorously with the 100 separate
initiatives in the White Paper, we will give greater emphasis to environmental
education. We must make everyone aware of the impact that pollution has on our
community; we must make everyone recognize the importance of doing something about
it; and we must make everyone realize that they have a part to play in making Hong
Kong a cleaner and greener place.
(6) BUILDING FOR THE FUTURE: PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE
78. In the next few years, we will also need to put a great deal of effort into building
up the physical infrastructure needed for a modern city which is not only home to
about 6 million people but also an important regional and international centre. In
doing this, we will take account both of the requirements of Hong Kong itself and
of those areas of southern China with which we now have such close economic links.
(a) The Airport
79. Last October, I said that a range of studies was being carried out to devise a
strategy for the long-term development of our port and airport. These have now been
completed. They show that there is a clear case on economic grounds for building a
new airport as soon as possible.
80. After an exhaustive study of the various options, the Government has decided to
build a new Hong Kong International Airport at Chek Lap Kok. It will be a two-runway
airport built to the most exacting modern standards and able to operate 24 hours a
day. When completed, it will be able to handle 80 million passengers a year -- over
three times the maximum capacity of Kai Tak. Our aim will be to open the first of
the two runways by the early part of 1997.
81. Building the airport itself, enormous though that project will be, is only part
of the story. We have to make sure that people can get to it easily and quickly.
To do this we plan to build a high-speed rail system and a six-lane highway which
will join north Lantau to Tsing Yi Island and go from there along the new West Kowloon
Reclamation to a Western Harbour Crossing and then to Hong Kong Island. We will also
have to provide all the facilities needed for servicing a new airport. This means
building a new town for at least 150 000 people, plus industrial and commercial
facilities, in the Tung Chung valley.
82. Building the new airport, and the road and rail links associated with it, will
be the largest project ever undertaken in Hong Kong. It will require an immense
amount of effort from both the public and the private sector. To have the new airport
in operation in early 1997 means setting to work as soon as possible. The planning,
construction and ultimately the management of it will be put in the hands of a new
Airport Authority. Early next year, I will be appointing members of a provisional
authority which will do the preliminary work before the authority itself is set up.
83. Once the first runway of the new airport is open we can close Kai Tak, which is
likely to be operating at full capacity by 1996. Besides the need for a modern airport
to meet Hong Kong's requirements in the 21st century, closing Kai Tak will bring its
own benefits. The whole of the area now used by the airport will be available for
redevelopment. We will be able to lift height restrictions in parts of Kowloon. And
the problem of excessive aircraft noise, which now affects some 350 000 people, will
be eliminated.
(b) The Port
84. The new airport will be a dramatic symbol of our determination to create an
infrastructure to the highest international standards. We propose to transform our
port in an equally dramatic way. The major projects that we are planning will create
what amounts to a completely new port on the western side of the territory. The need
to create this additional capacity comes from our sustained economic growth in recent
years. The port now handles 80 million tonnes of cargo a year, an increase of almost
90% in the past five years. Further substantial growth is expected. The point has
now been reached where our existing facilities are coming under severe strain.
85. In planning for the expansion of our port we have looked ahead to 2006. By that
time we will need --
- to increase our container throughput by five times;
- additional land for lorry parking and container storage;
- on-shore facilities to replace the unloading which is now done in the harbour
itself;
- space to cater for larger numbers of river trade vessels; and
- space for the various industrial activities which a modern port requires.
86. Our first priority is to build the next container terminal, Terminal 8. This
will go on reclaimed land at Stonecutters Island. We plan to make the site available
for development in 1991, so that the first berth can be in operation by mid-1993.
Terminal 9 and its support facilities will be built on reclaimed land at the southeast
of Tsing Yi Island. At that point, there will be little room for further development
in the area of the present container port. We then plan to move the focus of the
port westward. One area for development will be north Lantau, making use of the road
facilities being built for the new airport. Another will be the coastal strip west
of Tuen Mun. Two more major developments will be the construction of a large
breakwater between Lantau and Lamma to increase the amount of sheltered anchorage
in the western harbour; and the dredging of a new shipping channel to the west of
Lamma.
87. All this development work in the port means that we must make sure that we
co-ordinate the needs and interests of all its many different users. To do this,
we propose to set up a Port Development Board, which will give advice on the detailed
planning and management of the port as we carry out the plans for expansion I have
outlined.
(c) Financing the Development of the Port and Airport
88. The ambitious programme of works I have described will give Hong Kong a new modern
airport and a larger port, plus all the necessary transport links and supporting
industrial and commercial facilities. The cost will be some $127 billion at current
prices over the period up to 2006. This is an enormous financial commitment. But,
after very careful study, the Government is convinced that this commitment is one
we can afford. Indeed we believe that we cannot afford not to make it. We must make
sure that Hong Kong continues to have the facilities to meet the needs of our growing
economy. We must also be realistic, and make sure that we phase the construction
of these new projects in a way that does not place too great a strain on our economy.
89. We have already seen how successful the private sector has been in developing
our container port and in building our cross harbour tunnels. The Government
believes that many of the individual projects connected with the new airport and the
expansion of the port will be commercially viable. I am sure there will be many local
and international developers who will be keen to co-operate with us in these enormous
and exciting projects that are so important to Hong Kong's future.
90. The plans we have for building a new airport and developing the port will create
new opportunities for the construction industry. But they will also make huge
demands on its resources. It may well be necessary to consider exceptional
arrangements to ensure that we have an adequate supply of labour so that they are
completed on time and without causing unacceptable inflationary pressures.
(d) Land Resources
91. The new airport and the massive expansion of our port will transform Hong Kong's
development potential. Large new areas in the western part of the territory,
particularly Lantau Island, will be opened up for industrial and commercial use.
These activities are now concentrated in a fairly narrow band on both sides of the
harbour. But in future it will be possible to escape the restrictions and congestion
imposed by the existing urban areas and to plan further development on the basis of
large-scale modern port and airport facilities coming into being in the western part
of the territory. This will provide a new and very welcome opportunity to bring about
a great improvement in working and living conditions for the community as a whole.
92. Looking at the details, the new airport at Chek Lap Kok, and the bridges and roads
that go with it, will open up for potential development the whole of Lantau's northern
coastline. This can be achieved without damage to the outstanding recreational
facilities on the hills and southern coast of the island. Expanding the port
westwards will also make available further land, mainly for industrial use, west of
Tuen Mun.
93. The port and airport developments also mean that the West Kowloon Reclamation
will need to be completed in the mid-1990s to provide the necessary transport links
to the urban area. This reclamation will provide a major source of land in the urban
area for commercial and residential development. More badly needed land will be
provided by the Central and Wanchai reclamation, where sites will start to be
available during 1993. Looking further ahead, we have the possibility of reclaiming
the channel between Green Island and Hong Kong Island and the immense opportunities
provided by the removal of the airport from Kai Tak. These urban reclamations will
give us the opportunity to replan our older urban areas, as envisaged in the Metroplan.
In doing this, an important point will be to make sure that the planning of land use
is properly co-ordinated with the provision of new transport facilities.
(e) Transport
94. I have already referred to the new road and rail links which will be needed for
new port and airport developments. Preliminary planning and feasibility studies for
many of these projects have either begun or will soon start. In the meantime, the
Government is continuing to develop our transport infrastructure in other areas. The
railway section of the Eastern Harbour Crossing opened in August, and the road section
in September, four months ahead of schedule. This magnificent achievement by the
private sector has brought some much-needed relief both to the Cross Harbour Tunnel
and the MTR Nathan Road corridor. Other major projects to improve our transport links
are on schedule. Route 5 between Sha Tin and Tsuen Wan will open early next year,
followed by the tunnel linking Junk Bay (or, as it will be called in future, Tseung
Kwun O) to Kwun Tong and the final stages of the New Territories Circular Road. In
1991, the Tate's Cairn Tunnel (already well advanced) and the Kwun Tong Bypass will
be completed, to bring comfort and greatly improved transport connections for the
travel-weary inhabitants of Sha Tin and the New Territories.
95. The Green Paper on Transport Policy published in May gave details of a large number
of other road and rail projects which will be launched during the next 10 years. I
will not go into all the details. They include a new Western Harbour Crossing; the
Hung Hom Bypass; the upgrading of major east-west links in the Kowloon peninsula;
Route 7 from the Western Harbour Crossing to Aberdeen; and Route 16 from Sha Tin to
west Kowloon. And early next year, a development study will begin of the various rail
proposals in the Green Paper.
96. A transport policy is not simply a matter of building more roads and railways.
The Green Paper also set out strategies for improving and expanding public transport
and for managing the use of roads to make it possible to keep both people and goods
moving. Road use management is never popular. But we have to be realistic. Hong Kong
is a small, densely crowded territory with only limited space for new roads and
railways. We cannot cope with the same levels of private vehicle ownership that are
found in other prosperous communities without the city grinding to a halt. The goods
vehicle fleet has to be used efficiently to minimize its impact on congestion and
the environment. Most of our population travel by public transport. We must do what
we can to ensure that they remain willing and able to do so. When all the comments
on the Green Paper have been absorbed, the important question of how to do this will
be tackled in a transport White Paper to be published early next year.
(f) Technology
97. Making full use of modern technology is another important priority for an
increasingly sophisticated economy like ours. Indeed, we have done a great deal
through adopting advanced technology. Our banking and financial services have
achieved standards of excellence second to none. Our telecommunications industry
is already highly advanced, and the construction of a second network will create new
opportunities for competition. The MTRC and KCRC have been notable for introducing
the best available transport technology.
98. Other sectors of the economy, in particular the manufacturing industry, are
exploring what they need to do to remain technologically competitive in world markets.
The Government recognizes the importance of these efforts. As part of our overall
strategy to upgrade the economy, we plan to establish a new Hong Kong Technology Centre.
This will provide facilities for new and small high technology companies to share
certain common services until they are ready to set up on their own. To emphasize
the contribution which we hope our growing academic community can make to our
technological progress, we are considering locating the centre close to the City
Polytechnic as well as to the new Hong Kong Productivity Council Building.
(7) A VISION OF THE FUTURE
99. My aim this afternoon has been to show clearly how, despite the shocks we have
experienced during the year, your Government is continuing to plan for the longterm future of Hong Kong. We have a clear vision of what we are trying to achieve.
It is a vision that I hope will sustain Hong Kong during the present period of
uncertainty and give us all confidence in our ability to overcome whatever problems
confront us.
100. As a community we tend to take for granted what we have achieved. But we only
have to look back 10 years to see how much has been done. Hong Kong in 1979 was a
very different place. Let me take a few examples:
- our relations with China were still very limited. Our domestic exports to
the mainland were only worth $600 million (compared to $38 billion last year). We
had only recently opened air links in December 1978, and direct train services from
Guangzhou restarted only on 4 April;
- there was no universal franchise at any level. Only about 32 000 people
had the right to vote in Urban Council elections. The only district boards (those
in the New Territories) were wholly appointed;
- only that year, junior secondary education was for the first time made free
and compulsory for children below the age of 15;
- the first section of the MTR (from Shek Kip Mei to Kwun Tong) had just opened
on 30 September;
- we had 2.2 million tourists, about 40% of the figure last year;
- we had no bank building higher than 20 stories, no Exchange Square (but four
stock exchanges), no Academy for the Performing Arts, no Tsim Sha Tsui East, no
Aberdeen Tunnel and no airport tunnel.
101. Let us now use our imagination to look ahead slightly more than 10 years.
In the year 2000, Hong Kong will be a Special Administrative Region of the People's
Republic of China. It will have a wholly elected legislature. The Chief Executive,
and all the most senior government officials, will be Hong Kong Chinese. They will
exercise a high degree of autonomy in the administration of Hong Kong. The SAR will
be a leading regional and international commercial and financial centre in which
foreign nationals will play an important part. And it will be playing a full role
in a wide variety of international organizations.
102. Physically, Hong Kong will have changed almost beyond recognition. It will
take about 25 minutes to travel by rail from central Kowloon to the new airport at
Chek Lap Kok. On the way, you will go along the new West Kowloon Reclamation and pass
new port facilities at Stonecutters Island and Tsing Yi. Alternatively, you could
travel from Central to the Chinese border via the new Western Harbour Crossing, Tsing
Yi, the Route 3 tunnel to Yuen Long and the Lok Ma Chau bridge. Redevelopment will
be beginning on the present site of Kai Tak Airport. Our Convention and Exhibition
Centre, by then doubled in size, will be some 300 metres inland. So will Exchange
Square. The central business district will have expanded greatly onto a new
reclamation with a variety of new civic, cultural and commercial buildings and with
a continuous walkway beside the harbour linking open park areas.
103. Striking social changes will also have taken place. Our ambitious housing
programme means that about half of our households will be living in subsidized housing,
almost 40% of them in flats which they own themselves. Our revised educational targets
mean that as many as 20% of our 19-year olds may be studying in Hong Kong for first
degrees and another 7% for other tertiary level qualifications. Our strategy for
fighting pollution means that we will have significantly improved our environment,
including the air that we breathe, and we will have completely overhauled our sewerage
system. The establishment of our Hospital Authority will have led to more efficient
management, and greatly reduced overcrowding, in our public hospitals. There will
be 20 000 places in old people's homes, and a further 6 000 places in sheltered
housing provided by the Housing Authority. 90% of all homes will have access to up
to 20 television channels. 46% of the population will be living in the New Territories.
And so on.
(8) CONCLUSION
104. The plans that I have outlined today demonstrate your Government's commitment
to the future of Hong Kong. They are a major investment for our future prosperity.
They will be very expensive. We can afford them. But only if we are prepared to exercise
prudence and restraint in other areas of public expenditure. It will be more necessary
than ever to assess our priorities carefully. In particular, we must keep a tight
control on the growth of the Civil Service.
105. The amount of money we are proposing to spend on building for Hong Kong's
future may seem daunting. But it represents a necessary investment in human
resources and in our physical infrastructure. By pressing ahead with such ambitious
programmes despite the special pressures which our community has so recently faced,
the Government is demonstrating its commitment to Hong Kong's future. To carry out
these programmes, we will need all our enterprise, resourcefulness and efficiency.
And we will have to accept that we can achieve our goals only by giving continued
priority to the overall growth of our economy.
106. It has been a difficult year for Hong Kong. But we have had difficult years
before. We have survived them. We have emerged from them stronger and more confident
in our own ability. We must have confidence in ourselves. Without this, we cannot
expect other people to have confidence in us. Your Government will continue to face
resolutely the challenges that lie ahead. To do so, we need the support of Members
of this Council and of the whole community. We need more than that. We need leadership
from within the community. In 1997, Hong Kong will be run by Hong Kong people. They
must have confidence in themselves, and in the leaders they choose, if they are to
enjoy the stability and progress, for themselves and their families, for which this
whole community works so hard.