Honourable Members of the Legislative Council,
(I) INTRODUCTION
1. Hong Kong today is going through three crucial changes. All three are shaping
our future. All three raise the issue of how to manage the transition to 1997.
2. For the first time, a majority of the Members of this Council has been elected.
This is a landmark in the process of our constitutional development. At the same
time, we are over half-way between the signing of the Joint Declaration and the
reversion of Hong Kong to Chinese sovereignty in 1997. Hong Kong's relationship with
the People's Republic has entered a new, closer and more significant stage.
3. Our society itself is undergoing a process of transformation. Increased
education and rising prosperity bring higher expectations. We have already launched
major investment programmes to improve the economic and social foundations of the
territory on which the standard of living of the community depends. These programmes
are designed to make sure that Hong Kong will be one of Asia's leading cities in the
next century:
-- prosperous;
-- peaceful; and
-- protective of its disadvantaged members, its children and the environment.
4. In this Address, I will review how we plan to manage these three changes. First,
however, I should like to welcome you all to this Council, both those who are new
to this Chamber and those who have returned after previous service. To those of you
who have recently won election, my congratulations. To all of you, because the
Council works as a whole regardless of which door Members have entered by, I should
like to say that you have a vital contribution to make in all the three areas of change
that I have just mentioned. The public looks to you to ensure that the Administration
remains in the closest possible touch with the community -- with its anxieties as
well as its aspirations. The Administration will look to you for your help in the
important task of running Hong Kong in the interests of the people who live here.
We all -- together -- share the responsibility of ensuring that the Government's
policies and programmes reflect the public's best interests and enjoy the community's
support.
(II) CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
5. One of the main points I wish to address today is the working partnership between
this Council and the Administration. Without this Council's support and cooperation in the smooth handling of the legislative and financial affairs of the
territory, the Government will not be able to deliver the quality and choice of service
that our people expect and deserve. For its part, the Administration must adapt its
own procedures to the more representative form of government we now have.
6. Under Hong Kong's present constitutional system, the Administration does not
nominate candidates for election. It cannot launch its own political party,
supported by its own media and constituency apparatus. On the contrary, at a time
of elections, the Administration must remain neutral. Its task is to encourage
people to take part, both as candidates and voters, and then to see fair play. This
role is very different from that of a governing party in a western style democracy.
7. To pass legislation and obtain financial provision for its programmes, therefore,
the Administration will have to win the support of a majority of Members in this
Council. This means building up a co-operative partnership with the Council. The
Administration will play its part by presenting the Council with measures which we
believe to be practical, prudent and in the public interest. And we will provide
Members with all the information and explanation they need to assess and, I hope,
support our proposals. The Administration is determined to meet the community's
needs and, in so doing, to respond positively to the suggestions and criticisms of
all Members of this Council.
8. To achieve these goals, civil servants will have to work closely with Members.
From today, only three officials will hold seats in this Council. In the last Session,
there were ten; six years ago, there were 22. The small number of officials now in
the Council could not possibly carry the burden of explaining the Administration's
proposals in every area, let alone providing answers to questions put forward by
Members on matters of detail. So, in order to help this Council have a full and direct
view of the Government's policies in the great range of areas these cover, and to
help build up an effective partnership with Members, I will nominate other officials
to attend meetings of the Council at appropriate times.
9. These officials will have the task of presenting Bills; explaining expenditure
proposals; answering Members' questions; and replying to debates. They will play
a vital role in creating effective day-to-day links so that Members can best discharge
their responsibilities to the public. A new structure requires new procedures. I
am sure you will welcome the contribution these officials can make, and that you will
help in the development of this new relationship with the Civil Service.
10. Equally, if not more important, is the relationship between this Council and the
Executive Council. Under our system of government, the Executive Council is, and
will continue to be, the key policy-making body in Hong Kong. Its Members will have
an important role to play -- an increasingly important role -- both in reflecting
the views and concerns of Legislative Council Members and in explaining the
Administration's proposals to you and to a wider public. This will help us to create
an effective working partnership between the Administration and Members of this
Council. We need to give Executive Councillors more time to consider policy issues
and their implications, and not allow meetings to become cluttered with routine
business. A thorough review has been made of how to do this. The Executive Council's
procedures are being streamlined to allow its Members to concentrate more, and earlier,
on the essential issues.
11. In addition, Members will, I know, wish to review the way in which the Legislative
Council itself is organised and conducts its business. Your Standing Orders and
procedures are matters for you to decide for yourselves. But I can assure you that
you will have the Administration's full co-operation in the search for new or improved
ways of carrying out your legislative responsibilities.
12. These changes which I have outlined are only the immediate agenda. Further
constitutional development will take place in 1995. The entire Council will then
be elected, at least one third of them by direct election. Members will choose their
own President. The system of appointed Members will cease. There will be no civil
servant Members. The number of directly elected seats will be increased: so will
the number of functional constituencies. Some Members will be returned by an
Election Committee.
13. To prepare for 1995, a review of the entire electoral system is being undertaken.
It should be completed by the middle of next year. Among the main issues to be
considered will be the establishment of an independent Electoral Commission. A
Commission of this sort could assume responsibility for regulating electoral
procedures including canvassing rules, the role of political parties in elections
and the question of election expenses.
14. There are other key questions to be tackled. Our electoral rules are now
scattered throughout a variety of Ordinances. We need a cohesive framework of
electoral legislation. Decisions are also needed on such important issues as fixing
electoral boundaries and the age at which young people should be given the right to
vote. Later, when we have built up experience of how the Council in its new form
operates, we should consider whether to discuss further with China the precise
composition of the different elected elements in 1995.
15. Most of the meetings of this Council over the next four years will take place
under the chairmanship of Mr John SWAINE, the first Deputy President ever to be
appointed. Mr SWAINE will have the important responsibility of ensuring that the
Council's business is conducted impartially and efficiently. His appointment is a
significant step in our evolution towards a wholly-elected Council in 1995. It
underlines the distinct and independent role which this Council will play in the
partnership with the Administration. Mr SWAINE's distinguished record of public
service, coupled with his experience as a Member of this Council, make him
particularly well-suited to be your first Deputy President. I am sure that all
Members will join with me in welcoming him to his new post and in wishing him well.
16. The work of this Council has in the past been characterized by a spirit of
pragmatism and a respect for the views of others. We must retain these traditions
of tolerance, common sense and honest debate. The people of Hong Kong will best be
served by a Legislative Council which focuses on issues, decisions and, wherever
possible, consensus.
(III) RELATIONS WITH CHINA
17. In less than six years, China will resume sovereignty over Hong Kong. This simple
number demonstrates why for the Administration, as well as the community as a whole,
management of the transition to 1997 is of the greatest significance. It explains
the importance which we must attach to establishing a harmonious and effective
partnership with our counterparts at all levels in China.
18. Hong Kong has developed social and economic systems very different from those
of China. Partly for this reason, relations between the two sides have not always
been as smooth as we would have liked. Because history has given Hong Kong a different
style of running its affairs, political as well as economic, we cannot assume that
our way of doing things will immediately be understood or appreciated in Peking.
19. This does not mean that after 1997 the Hong Kong way of doing things will have
to be brought in line with the systems in Peking: Hong Kong's way of doing things,
and our own systems, will continue. That is what "one country, two systems" means.
But if we are to build the sort of partnership with China that we need, it is vital
that all of us, Members of this Council, civil servants and the general public, strive
to present our Hong Kong point of view patiently and carefully -- and be prepared
to listen with equal care and patience. Our aim and expectation should be that the
good sense and goodwill which have resolved differences between the two sides since
the Joint Declaration will continue to prevail. This expectation has been given
fresh life by the Prime Minister's visit to Peking last month and the signing of the
Memorandum of Understanding on the new airport.
20. Thanks to the Memorandum, we are now moving ahead with work on building the airport
and port facilities which are so important if Hong Kong is to continue to be a major
international business centre, as well as a key component in the development of
southern China. These projects will also significantly improve the lives of the
residents of Kowloon, by ridding them of the noise and other hazards created by Kai
Tak. The present site of Kai Tak airport and the whole western half of the New
Territories will be opened up for development. These are exciting goals.
21. The Memorandum of Understanding has been recognized widely, both here and
overseas, as evidence that a partnership is evolving between the two sides, based
on a willingness to settle differences in the best interests of Hong Kong. The
Memorandum of Understanding shows that with patience, perseverance and goodwill, even
the most difficult problems in our relationship with China can be overcome.
22. The British Prime Minister's visit to Peking symbolised the beginning of this
new phase of closer co-operation. I believe it demonstrated once again the United
Kingdom's commitment to Hong Kong. The British Government has made it clear that
it is pledged to discharge its responsibility for the territory up to 1997 and to
ensure that we continue to have a strong and effective administration. It is an
encouragement to us all that in visiting Peking and in coming here to Hong Kong, both
the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary have positively underlined, in word and
deed, Britain's determination to stand by its obligations.
23. I expect that the year ahead will see the Joint Liaison Group functioning with
a new impetus and sense of purpose. During the Prime Minister's talks in Peking,
it was agreed that the Group's work should be speeded up and all necessary resources
given to it, so that the building blocks for the post-1997 system are firmly in place
by that year. The Group should now be in a position to function more efficiently
and more quickly than has been possible in the recent past. I very much hope that
this will enable it to resolve those issues which are still outstanding between the
two sides.
24. As 1997 approaches, the need for closer consultation and co-operation with China
will increase. From now on, the Foreign Secretary will meet with the Chinese Foreign
Minister on a regular six-monthly basis. These meetings will give additional impetus
to the work that needs to be done before 1997. I myself look forward to regular
meetings with the Director of the Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office of the State
Council.
25. These frequent, direct contacts with senior Chinese leaders will, I hope, enable
us to deal with important issues in a more speedy way than has sometimes been the
case in the past. I intend to ensure that this closer and more practical relationship
is reflected all the way through the Government, so that more and more departments
develop working contacts with their Chinese counterparts.
26. Both the quality and the quantity of our working contacts with China are already
changing for the better. So far this year, almost 100 government delegations from
Hong Kong have visited China, on a wide range of official business. Over 60 have
come in the other direction. We have received a number of senior Chinese visitors,
including Mr JI Pengfei and Mr LU Ping, the Ministers of Finance and Energy, and the
Governors of the Provinces of Hubei and Jiangsu. This trend will, I hope, continue.
27. It is not just these high level visits that matter. Contacts across the board
-- natural contacts with our neighbour -- are vital. Up to the end of August, our
land border with China had been crossed over 23 million times by people making visits
of various sorts to China or to Hong Kong. This figure shows that a vast network
of personal contacts already exists between this territory and the mainland of China.
It is a natural growth. We will encourage it.
28. In addition to these human contacts, our bilateral trade and investment relations
are already extensive. Over the past decade, the business community has seen the
new opportunities presented by economic reform in China. Hong Kong investment in
new manufacturing and processing capacity in Guangdong province and elsewhere in
China has helped to sustain our own economic growth. At the same time, it has
contributed to southern China's overall development. As many as three million
workers in Guangdong are employed by Hong Kong factories: four times Hong Kong's own
manufacturing workforce. Over 80% of the external investment in Guangdong comes from
Hong Kong. We should not forget that Guangdong province alone has a population
greater than that of Britain or France. There remains enormous potential for future
growth in the coming years. Indeed, I see the southern area of China as potentially
one of Asia's most significant centres of economic growth over the next few decades.
29. Achieving the smooth and successful transfer of sovereignty in 1997 is a goal
worth every ounce of our ability and effort. Members of this Council will have a
role to play in this process as they will in other areas of government. It will not
be an easy task. But meeting this challenge is perhaps our greatest responsibility
to the people of Hong Kong. I am sure I can count on this Council to play its part.
(IV) PROGRESS REVIEW AND LEGISLATIVE PROGRAMME
30. I should like now to turn to the third major area of change to which I referred
at the beginning of this address. This is the transformation of our society by the
Government's programmes for developing the economy and the physical and social
infrastructure of Hong Kong.
31. It is worth emphasizing the scope of these programmes. The Government is making
major new investments not only in the airport, new port facilities and measures to
protect the environment, but also in an unprecedented expansion of higher education.
For example, between now and 1995, the number of first year places available for higher
education in Hong Kong will rise from under 14 000 to over 20 000. This will be no
mean achievement, especially as we are determined to maintain internationally
accepted standards. It will require a great deal of work from all concerned. But
it shows, in one area, just how large and significant are the Government's programmes
for improving the life, and the livelihood of this community.
32. In social welfare, this year's White Paper sets out those areas where further
efforts are needed to improve and expand our services, particularly for the
disadvantaged, the elderly and children at risk. We will have important new
proposals coming forward in primary health care; and a comprehensive green paper will
soon be published on services for the disabled.
33. These major commitments and new initiatives are in addition to our more
traditional programmes. Many of these we tend to take for granted. We are, for
example, constantly improving the quality of our primary and secondary education.
Our housing programme remains one of the biggest and most impressive in the world.
Some three million people -- over half our population -- now live in Housing Authority
homes. Nearly 400 000 new flats will be built by the Authority between now and 2001
-- a major area of continuing government investment in the future of the community.
All these programmes make use of our economic success to improve Hong Kong's quality
of life.
34. Members of this Council are intimately involved in developing such programmes.
You provide advice. You approve funds -- and it is worth remembering that increased
funding can only come from further economic growth. Above all, you debate and pass
the legislation which forms the essential framework for translating policy into
action. In this Session alone, the Administration expects to bring more than a
hundred items of legislation before the Council.
35. This legislative programme will make an important contribution to tackling Hong
Kong's major problems and improving the quality of life of our community. Let me
give a few examples.
-- Members will be presented with important proposals designed to combat triads and
to help the fight against drug trafficking.
-- There will be at least six Bills aimed at improving the employment conditions
of ordinary workers.
-- There will be Bills to protect women and children from abuse in the home.
-- Several Bills will aim to bring Hong Kong's existing legislation into line with
the Bill of Rights.
-- A series of measures will increase our controls on pollution.
36. I do not intend in this speech to deal in detail with all these important policy
initiatives and legislative proposals. That would make it far too long. Instead,
I shall confine my remarks to key areas of progress and to some of the major items
of legislation which Members will be asked to support during the coming year.
Members will, I am sure, make full use of this debate to raise those areas with which
they are particularly concerned. The Administration looks forward to hearing your
views. Later in the debate, Branch Secretaries will respond to points raised by
Members and take the opportunity to set out in more detail the policies and programmes
of the Administration.
(a) The economy
37. I make no apology for starting with the economy. Economic success is the only
guarantee of our living standards. Without continued economic growth, we cannot
maintain, let alone improve upon, the ambitious programmes we have undertaken to
upgrade our social and other services.
38. The prospects for 1992 look good. There are good grounds for being reasonably
optimistic about the economic outlook in the medium term. The international
situation is very different from when I last addressed the Council.
39. In October last year, the world faced a crisis in the Middle East. Some of the
most important world economies were in recession. Locally, we were some way off an
agreement with China over our new airport. All this had cast a shadow over our
economic prospects.
40. Now, a year on, the success of the international forces in the Gulf has removed
a major threat to world peace. And the agreement with China on the new airport has
cleared the way for another decade of economic expansion in Hong Kong.
41. Our domestic exports in the first seven months of this year increased by 2% in
real terms. This compares with a decline of 3% for the same period last year.
Re-exports have boomed -- up 26%. Other indicators of economic activity are also
moving in the right direction. Local and overseas investment in plant and equipment
has picked up sharply. In the first seven months of this year, such investment was
18% higher than in the same period a year ago. We have already been able to revise
upwards our earlier forecast of economic growth. We now expect growth this year to
be about 4%.
42. Hong Kong's economic success is tied closely to our traditional role as the
gateway to southern China. Our trade with China continues to expand at great speed.
It grew by 15% in 1990. In the first seven months of 1991, growth was an astonishing
27%. As a result, intensive business and investment relations are growing between
Hong Kong and the fast-developing economy of southern China. Chief executive
officers of international companies who are planning expansion in Asia would do well
to think of this, and of the role that Hong Kong will play in this key area of growth.
43. Inevitably, despite our impressive record of economic growth and expanding
world-wide trade, we continue to face problems. Some are the result of troubles which
begin overseas and are beyond our control. In August last year, the invasion of
Kuwait was a serious threat to our prospects. In August this year, the attempted
coup in the Soviet Union posed a similar threat to international investment confidence.
Fortunately, the immediate political crisis in Moscow passed off quickly. But Hong
Kong was reminded once again of how fragile world business sentiments are and of the
volatility of world markets. All this affects Hong Kong. We are no longer primarily
an exporter of light manufactured products. Instead, we are fully integrated into
the world's financial markets. We must expect to be more vulnerable than some other
places to the gusty winds of crises in different parts of the world. We must keep
ourselves increasingly alert to what is happening elsewhere in our global market.
44. On the domestic front, inflation continues to be a major concern. I made the
point last year that there is no easy cure. In May, the Government froze fees and
charges and cut back on increases in tobacco duty. Civil servants contributed by
accepting a non-inflationary pay increase. We have worked hard to restrain other
areas of public expenditure.
45. These measures have had some impact. Inflation declined from a peak of 13.9%
in April to 12.7% in August. This is still far too high. We must consider urgently
what else we can do to reduce inflation.
46. The real danger is that inflation will remain at too high a level if we do not
tackle some of the structural obstacles to economic growth. One of the main ones
is the acute shortage of labour in some sectors of the economy. Inflation is only
part of the price we must pay for our chronic shortage of labour. In addition, this
shortage imposes a severe constraint on the economy's capacity to expand and create
additional wealth. And the shortage of workers will increase as our infrastructural
projects get underway.
47. We thus face a choice. Do we accept the need to strengthen our labour force with
a carefully controlled scheme to import labour? Or do we accept inflation,
aggravated by the slow economic growth caused by the acute shortage of labour? I
believe we must go for growth. But it must be growth with the right safeguards. We
are therefore considering an expansion of our controlled scheme to import workers
from overseas -- but only in those sectors of the economy where the labour shortage
is most acute.
48. There is, of course, no question of expanding the scheme to the point where the
living standards of local workers would be damaged. The objective must be to increase
the prosperity of the people of Hong Kong as a whole by removing a major obstacle
to economic growth.
49. The Government's responsibility to the work force goes beyond ensuring that their
interests are protected when it becomes necessary to import foreign labour. It also
means providing statutory protection in respect of health and safety, employment
conditions and compensation. During this Session, Members will be asked to consider:
-- tighter controls over cargo handling and related operations;
-- legislation to provide compensation for hearing loss induced by noise;
-- a scheme for the direct settlement of minor compensation claims;
-- improved regulation of employment agencies; and
-- improvements to the Long Service Payment Scheme to make employees below the age
of 45 eligible for payment if they are dismissed after five years' service.
50. A vital aspect of our economic policy is to make sure that we respond to the rapidly
changing technological environment. On 1 January next year, a new Industry and
Technology Development Council will be established. It will advise the Government
on how Hong Kong's industry should respond to technological developments around the
world so as to maintain its competitive edge. One of the Council's most important
responsibilities will be to recommend grants to selected businesses for applied
research and development.
(b) Managing the Government's finances
51. Later, in the debate on this address, the Financial Secretary will explain in
detail the Administration's strategy for financing its programmes, taking account
of the various economic and fiscal constraints that we face. But the basic principles
are clear. If our strategy is to succeed, we must ensure that the overall growth
of expenditure is kept in line with the growth rate of the economy. This means that
we must continuously re-examine spending plans and existing commitments. We must
be prepared to transfer resources from one programme area to another to reflect
changing priorities.
52. In co-operation with this Council's Finance Committee, we must look for ways to
provide the public with better value in the provision of public services -- in
particular, through improvements in the productivity of the Civil Service. The
community has a right to expect that higher quality services should be combined with
prudent financial planning.
(c) The physical development of Hong Kong
53. Last year, I reaffirmed our intention to build a new airport at Chek Lap Kok.
The Memorandum of Understanding signed with China last month means we can move forward
with confidence to the next stage of the project. The New Airport Master Plan and
the crucial Financial Consultancy for the airport will both be finished within three
months. The airport itself, and the railway, major roads and bridges that will link
it to the urban areas, together make up what is called the Airport Core Programme.
A good deal of progress has already been made with this Core Programme.
-- Tenders will soon be invited for the contract to reclaim the airport site itself.
The site will cover an area of 1 200 hectares. This is larger than the whole of Kowloon
south of Boundary Street.
-- The 300-plus hectare reclamation along the shore-line of west Kowloon is well
underway. It is already possible to see significant progress with the new breakwater
and typhoon shelter.
-- By the end of the year, we expect to receive tenders for construction of the Tsing
Ma Bridge. This will be one of the longest suspension bridges in the world.
-- In a few months' time, tenders will also be invited for the Kap Shui Mun bridge,
which will form the other major section of the Lantau Fixed Crossing.
-- Early next year, proposals from the private sector to build the Western Harbour
Crossing -- a six-lane tunnel, 1.5 km long -- will be invited.
-- Over the next few months, tenders will also be invited for other important
projects, including the North Lantau Expressway.
-- Tenders for preparatory works for the new town of Tung Chung will be invited before
the end of this month.
-- Finally, design work is well advanced for the West Kowloon Expressway and the
Airport Railway.
54. Some people remain concerned about whether we can afford these massive projects.
I believe that we both can and must. Of course we need to plan our financing of these
and other major projects prudently. Costs must be controlled, and budgets rigorously
monitored. But it is worth remembering that our current expectation is that the
Airport Core Programme will absorb only about one-quarter of our total capital
expenditure during the six years needed for construction. This level of expenditure
will be the equivalent of about 2% of annual GDP over the same period. This is only
a little higher than the corresponding figure for the MTR during the period of its
construction.
(d) The environment
55. Some people also worry about the impact that the enormous infrastructural
developments we are undertaking will have on the environment. At the same time, there
is a good deal of relief that removing the airport from Kai Tak will make a very
substantial difference to the lives of the sorely-tried inhabitants of Kowloon.
56. Improving the environment remains an urgent priority. Last year, I outlined a
comprehensive environmental programme designed to ensure that economic progress is
not achieved at the expense of a deterioration in the air we breathe and the water
we drink.
57. One major priority must be to deal with the more than 22 000 tonnes of rubbish
which Hong Kong produces every day. Also we must stop treating the waters around
Hong Kong as a dumping ground for sewage and chemical waste. Every year we discharge
over 700 million tonnes of untreated sewage and chemical waste into our streams and
coastal waters. Much of this goes straight into the harbour. To solve these
problems we have launched a comprehensive programme to upgrade our chemical waste,
sewage and refuse disposal facilities. Solving long-standing environmental
problems is very expensive; but, despite our severe financial constraints, we must
and will press ahead. Over the next five years alone, we have committed some $8
billion to this crucial programme.
58. We also need new legislative controls. This Session, Members will be asked to
consider measures to tighten our legislation on air and water pollution. Also to
consider new proposals for controlling toxic waste.
59. Pollution is no respecter of boundaries. If our plans are to succeed, we need
to work closely with our neighbours in Guangdong. Gradually we are building up the
habit and the mechanisms for doing this. The Hong Kong -- Guangdong Environment
Protection Liaison Group has a full agenda in the year ahead. For example, our plans
to improve the treatment of sewage depend on co-operation with the Chinese authorities
on the construction of a ten kilometre submarine pipeline. And the Liaison Group
has set up a joint team of environmental experts to recommend control measures to
stop the growing pollution of Deep Bay.
60. Improving the environment is not only a matter of government or even private
sector investment in major infrastructural projects. Sometimes, significant
improvements can be made at relatively little cost. More emphasis can be given in
our schools to the importance of environmental issues, without any radical changes
to the curriculum. Making our young people conscious of the environment they live
in is vital if we are to achieve a "greener" Hong Kong. In addition, more private
companies and government departments could introduce initiatives to save energy and
paper. And more tree-planting could be encouraged by district boards in the urban
areas. Some district boards have already done a great deal to improve the environment
by planting new trees in their streets.
61. A clean and safe environment requires a personal commitment from all of us. The
quality of life in Hong Kong depends on all of us taking our environmental
responsibilities seriously. For the Government, improving the environment remains
a priority -- a major challenge in the 1990s.
(e) Social development
62. I referred just now to the quality of life. The people of Hong Kong have made
great sacrifices in the past to build our economy and develop our infrastructure.
We are undertaking new and larger investment programmes for the coming decade. But
economic growth is not being pursued simply for its own sake. Our goal must be to
use the additional wealth created to improve the living standards of all our families
and to create an attractive and secure life-style for the community as a whole.
63. Hong Kong today is as socially and economically mature as many developed nations.
In such a community, the Government must be no less committed to improving social
services and to protecting the disadvantaged than it is to upgrading the physical
infrastructure. That is why we have paid so much attention to social services in
recent decades. Much has been achieved.
64. There are, however, still areas of social provision where we lag behind the
standards we ought to achieve. The Administration will be bringing forward proposals
designed to make good existing deficiencies, and to strengthen our commitment to the
disadvantaged and those at risk. Let there be no misunderstanding: the
Administration does not regard improving the quality and variety of our social
services as a luxury. It is no less important than our investments in port facilities
or new road systems.
(f) Health and welfare
65. Major improvements are underway in the medical and health services. The Hospital
Authority was formally established on 1 December last year. It will take over the
management of all government and subvented hospitals on 1 December this year.
This important reform will enable us to improve the quality of patient care in public
hospitals throughout the territory. Within a year, rows of camp beds in overcrowded
wards will, I hope, be a thing of the past.
66. A major policy review has concluded that, in the past, not enough attention has
been paid to primary health care. Improvements in this area could well reduce other
medical expenditure in the longer term. The review's major recommendations include:
-- introducing a new Student Health Service;
-- improving our School Dental Service;
-- developing a computerized health information system;
-- strengthening our health education system; and
-- introducing new screening services for women and the elderly.
67. The Government will also present Members with a series of legislative proposals
in the health and welfare field. I hope they will win your full support. One
priority is the control and discouragement of smoking. New legislation will be
introduced to restrict further the use, sale and promotion of tobacco products. This
will involve the imposition of a maximum tar limit; stronger health warnings; the
greater use of no-smoking areas; and a clearer definition of what constitutes tobacco
sponsorship.
68. In the welfare field, Members will be asked to consider major amendments to our
child protection legislation. These will redefine the circumstances under which
children require the protection of the Director of Social Welfare and the courts,
and provide additional powers of investigation. They will prevent people who are
obviously unsuitable from taking on the responsibility of child-minding.
69. This is the final year of the United Nations Decade of Disabled Persons. Hong
Kong will mark this occasion with a Green Paper setting out a comprehensive package
of proposals to help the disabled members of our community. Our goal must be not
just to provide assistance for the disabled, but to give them equal opportunities,
as far as possible, with other members of the community. The measures to be
considered include:
-- increased integration of disabled children into mainstream education;
-- more sheltered workshops for those unable to compete fully in the open market,
combined with vigorous encouragement of open employment of the disabled;
-- more day activity centres and residential care facilities for the severely
mentally handicapped;
-- renewed efforts to improve access for the disabled in using buildings and
transport facilities;
-- a rehabilitation services strategy which takes into account the increasing number
of elderly people in the community; and
-- an education programme to transform the public's attitude to the disabled.
(g) Public order
70. I will now turn to law and order. Our community is rightly concerned that Hong
Kong should remain a safe city in which to live, work and raise a family. The
Government shares that concern. We will not let standards slip. Contrary to the
impression given by a few dramatic and much publicized criminal incidents, there has
been no deterioration in the crime figures in overall terms. Our crime rates remain
well below the levels which plague so many other major cities.
71. Nevertheless, there is real cause for concern at the recent increase in violent
crime. Robberies involving firearms or imitation firearms have increased threefold
in the past five years. The Government shares the community's outrage at such crime.
It cannot be tolerated. We must, and will, take determined measures to prevent it.
72. There is already a stronger police presence on the streets. This has meant moving
some police officers from support to operational duties; redeploying the Police
Tactical Unit; and making greater use of the Auxiliary Police. Relieving the police
from managing the High Island Detention Centre has also helped. There are now 200
more police officers on the streets of the city every day than there were three months
ago. In addition we have four regional police emergency units, which have available
more powerful and sophisticated arms and protective equipment. These units are there
to respond to "999" calls and, in emergencies, to move quickly to support officers
on patrol.
73. Over the past 12 months, the police have carried out a series of successful,
large-scale operations directed at preventing serious crime. These operations are
made possible by intelligence reports on the sources of firearms and the identity
of criminals and criminal gangs. Gathering information has been helped by increased
co-operation with the Chinese authorities. Our police are developing a good working
relationship with their counterparts across the border, not only in the fight against
cross-border crime, but also in the rapid exchange of information.
74. Smuggling, particularly of cars and electrical goods into China, has been a
particular cause for concern. But the Anti-Smuggling Task Force which was set up
in February this year has had a significant impact. In February of this year, there
were 167 thefts of luxury cars; in September, only 27. Gangs which had been smuggling
thousands of electrical goods to China every day find it much more difficult to ply
their trade: the law now makes those who help them highly vulnerable to detection
and prosecution. Our success in this area shows that even apparently intractable
law-and-order problems can be overcome, given determination, co-operation with
China, improved co-ordination of our own security efforts and tight legislative
controls.
75. Putting an end to organized crime must also remain a major priority. The success
of other countries in destroying the power of organized crime syndicates shows what
can be achieved. Since my last address, the police force has been looking intensively
at recent developments in triad organization and activity in the territory.
Anti-triad operations have been reinforced at street level and anti-triad
intelligence is being stepped up. Triad activity will be hit hard in the coming
months.
76. We must combine new police initiatives with tough legislation if we are to combat
the potential threat to order and stability posed by organized crime. A White Bill
has recently been published so that the views of the community can be sought. The
proposals in the Bill would improve our ability to prosecute and punish those involved
in organized crime. They would deter organized criminal activity through heavier
penalties. And they would cripple the power of criminal syndicates by allowing the
proceeds of crime to be confiscated. This major new initiative has the full backing
of the Fight Crime Committee. I hope that Members will support the Bill when it comes
before them in the new year.
(h) Vietnamese migrants
77. In the past year, Hong Kong has continued to face major difficulties in coping
with the influx of Vietnamese migrants. This is an issue which remains a matter of
deep concern to the community and to the Administration. So far this year over 20
000 Vietnamese have arrived on our shores. The camp population in Hong Kong is now
over 64 000.
78. After so many years of effort, it is encouraging that we are now seeing welcome
signs of greater resolve by the international community, including Vietnam, to deal
with this problem. For our part, we will continue to conduct ourselves in accordance
with the internationally-agreed Comprehensive Plan of Action. We look forward to
discussing with the Vietnamese authorities over the next few weeks the details of
an orderly return programme for those screened out.
79. Meanwhile, our existing programmes for returning volunteers to their homes in
Vietnam, and resettling overseas those found to be genuine refugees, will continue.
Since my last address, a year ago, some 6 000 volunteers have gone back to Vietnam.
In addition, some 7 000 refugees have left Hong Kong for a new life overseas. This
is partly due to our successful use of the new refugee transit centre in the
Philippines.
80. A month ago we were able to close the Tuen Mun Open Centre. We are aiming to
close the Kai Tak Centre next month. Very soon the Pillar Point Centre will be the
only camp for refugees in Hong Kong.
81. It is important that we should continue to look for a sensible, fair and humane
way to begin to solve the human tragedy of those who have come in their thousands
to Hong Kong from Vietnam trying -- with no real hope of being accepted -- to seek
a new life on the other side of the world.
(V) CONCLUSION: SHARED RESPONSIBILITY FOR GOOD GOVERNMENT
82. In conclusion, I believe that, with the help of the Council, we can, and will,
deal successfully with the changes which this territory is going through and which
are transforming our relationship with China, our political system and our economic
and social infrastructure. Hong Kong has a record of meeting challenges successfully.
That is the standard we must set ourselves. That is our source of confidence in facing
the future.
83. The Administration is committed to doing all it can to meet the aspirations of
the community. Inevitably, in reaching for this objective, there will be debate over
the selection of priorities and how best to use limited resources. Some of the
choices will be complex. Some will no doubt be painful. But I can assure Members
that the consistent principle for the Administration will be to determine what is
best in the public interest. In trying to chart the right course for government
programmes, we shall rely heavily on the advice of this Council and on building up
a constructive partnership with its Members.
84. Over the next few years we are committed to making major financial investments
in the physical infrastructure of the territory. These projects -- the airport,
expanding the port, protecting the environment, building roads and tunnels -- are
all part of building for the future. They are all part of making sure that, in the
next 10 and 20 years, Hong Kong will be able to compete successfully with other centres
in the region and, by competing successfully, provide a life of opportunity and
prosperity for its people.
85. These projects will not be carried out at the expense of other aspects of the
community's life. Better quality and a wider choice in education; maintaining a high
standard of law and order; improving health care; strengthening social welfare; and
more efficient transport services all are equally important and will be major parts
of the Government's future programmes.
86. To achieve all our goals will not be easy. We will need to develop a practical
working relationship with China. We will need an efficient and dedicated Civil
Service. We will need, in this Council, the commitment of all Members to work
together for the common good. Together, we have a task of great historical
significance in working for the people of Hong Kong. Much is expected of us all.
Together, much can be achieved.
87. With the help of this Council I believe that we will meet successfully the
challenges and the changes which confront us.