GOVERNOR: Mr President, Honourable Members,
HONG KONG:
TODAY'S SUCCESS,
TOMORROW'S CHALLENGES
The Peking talks
In my first address to this Council last October, I set out an agenda for Hong Kong for the
five years from 1992 to 1997. It covered social, educational, environmental and economic
priorities. It sought to show how we would work to secure Hong Kong's way of life, a
market economy operating within the rule of law, enjoying all the values of a free society.
But most attention focused on the last major unresolved political issue of the transition
from British to Chinese sovereignty. It is a difficult matter. Were it not so, I imagine it
would have been satisfactorily overcome long ago. I refer, of course, to the arrangements
for the last elections under British sovereignty.
2. The proposals the Government put forward last October had been deliberately framed
to ensure that they conformed with the provisions of the Joint Declaration and the Basic
Law. There followed a prolonged and vigorous debate during which those proposals were
endorsed by this Council by a comfortable margin and were regularly supported in opinion
polls by substantial majorities. We made it clear that these were proposals which we would
like to discuss with our Chinese colleagues. However, it took six months to get discussions
under way. They began when legislative debate was about to start in this Council.
3. Perhaps there is a lesson in that. There have now been 12 rounds or about 100 hours of
talks. The British and Chinese Foreign Ministers met to consider progress for the second
time on 1 October at the United Nations in New York. Later this afternoon, I will review the
ground that has been covered with the Chinese negotiators, the solutions we have proposed
and the work that lies ahead.
Raising our sights
4. In last year's policy address, I put forward 103 specific policy proposals aimed at
improving the quality of life of Hong Kong people. Some were to be achieved in the longer
term, others during 1993. I can report today that we have achieved, or are on schedule to
achieve, virtually all of our commitments. I shall not go into the details this afternoon of
where we have got to with each commitment. Instead, a detailed progress report is being
made available to
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 15
Members and to the community with the printed version of today's policy address. This
report lists progress, item by item. It is, I believe, an impressive record. But Members will
not be surprised to hear that we are not perfect. There have been some serious shortfalls as
well — relatively few — but we identify them alongside our successes and try to explain
what we propose to do about them.
Next year's goals
5. Last year we made a bold start, and the Financial Secretary built on it in his Budget in
March. This year, we can afford to do even better, setting new standards to meet the rising
aspirations of our people. How can we afford it? Thanks, once again, to prudent financial
management, continued economic expansion and, above all, the hard work and success of
the people of Hong Kong.
6. I believe we should set — as a community — five priorities for the coming year:
- first, to do everything we can to agree with China fair, open and acceptable
arrangements for the elections in 1994 and 1995 and, at the same time, to work
out new ways of developing Hong Kong's relationship with China and its
institutions at the practical level;
- second, to ensure that our economy remains strongly competitive in the
international marketplace and even more accountable to its customers;
- third, to concentrate on specific improvements in our social service, education
and housing programmes;
- fourth, to deliver real improvements in our care of the elderly, a growing
proportion of our population; and
- fifth, to tackle head-on the recent upsurge in that most corrosive of evils,
corruption.
THE MOMENTUM OF GROWTH
7. I will not restate at length this afternoon our fundamental economic policies — our
commitment to low taxes, controlled public spending and free enterprise. We will remain
committed to these principles throughout my governorship. Nor do I intend to review our
economic prospects in any detail. I will leave that to our excellent Financial Secretary. I
have just one thing to say on that score: how many other finance ministers in the world
could have used their budgets this year simultaneously to cut taxes, raise spending and
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 16
increase the reserves? Our financial position today is sufficiently healthy to allow us to
undertake additional commitments to much needed capital improvements to our schools,
hospitals and clinics, as I will explain later.
8. There has been no letup in our economic advance.
- This year, we are set to overtake Australia and the United Kingdom in terms of
GDP per head. Next year, we should draw level with Canada.
- Real GDP growth is likely to be about 5.5% for the year, an impressive
performance, underprinned by the continuing strength of our exports, consumer
spending and capital investment.
- Inflation has eased - but it is still too high. It is likely to average 9% or just under
for the year, not the 9.5% we originally forecast.
- Meanwhile, the Hang Seng Index has shrugged off setbacks to reach a succession
of new records. At the end of September, it was nearly 40% higher than at the
same time last year. It is probably the best performing major stock market in the
world.
Causes for concern abroad
9. This performance is all the more remarkable because of the difficult conditions in
some of our major markets.
- The United States and United Kingdom economies have only recently begun to
emerge from a long and painful recession.
- The other major European economies and Japan have yet to do so.
10. Hong Kong has taken these challenges in its stride, notching up another year of solid
growth. But we cannot be complacent. As ever, difficulties lie ahead. On the trade front, the
question of China's MFN status will come up again next spring to dog the relationship
between our two most important trading partners. We will continue to fight for
unconditional renewal, as we did vigorously — and with considerable impact — this year.
But our task may be even more formidable next time than it was this year. Another worry is
that the Uruguay Round of the GATT negotiations may miss yet another deadline, thus
frustrating our hopes of greater trade liberalization and placing the multilateral trading
system in jeopardy.
11. Closer to home, inflation has reached serious levels in China's major cities this year.
The Chinese Government has acted to counter this threat. I applaud the way in which China
acted to slow down growth without turning back from economic liberalization. If it can
hold fast to its economic principles in times of
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 17
difficulty, it will win allies around the world, not least in support of its bid to rejoin the
GATT. We hope the measures will succeed. If they do, the territory's economy will benefit
considerably. Certainly, interdependence with the economy of southern China means that
we are vulnerable to price pressures in China but, for the time being at least, our exports
and re-exports retain significant competitive advantages. It may not be an easy year for the
Chinese economy — yet another reason for us to be prudent in our economic management.
The economic imperative
12. For Hong Kong, nothing is more important than getting the economy right. I think this
is a point well understood here. For Hong Kong, while it is true that our way of life sustains
our economy, it is equally true that our economy supports our way of life. In setting out our
policy goals, the economy comes first. We have to keep it fit and healthy.
Competition and the consumer
13. Last year, I asked my new Business Council to decide how to take forward the
competition initiative announced in my policy address. Following consultation with the
Business Council, we provided funds for the Consumer Council to conduct competition
policy studies specific to individual industries. From what I have seen so far, they have
done an excellent job. I expect the Government to follow up each market study by
publishing a detailed response within six months of its release. It is important that the
Consumer Council has the resources it needs to complete its work on competition policy. I
therefore propose to provide an additional $3.5 million next year to the Council for the
employment of consultants to provide the necessary support.
14. Every government has a duty to protect consumers against unscrupulous behaviour by
those businesses which put short-term profits ahead of the legitimate interests of their
customers — not the least of which is safety. We intend to redress the balance in favour of
the consumer, by proposing to this Council:
- a package of three Bills to impose clear obligations on the suppliers of goods and
services to ensure that these are safe, of acceptable quality and open to inspection
by the customer;
- a further Bill to enable the courts to strike down and rewrite contract terms which
are manifestly unfair to consumers; and
- a grant of $11 million to the Consumer Council to establish a Consumer
Representative Action Fund to enable the Council to assist consumers in initiating
class actions against a common
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 18
defendant and to commission legal consultancies on the operation of the Fund and
other consumer-related matters.
Taken together, these measures will substantially improve the rights of the consumer in
Hong Kong.
Fuller disclosure
15. An open society does not keep unnecessary secrets. Where monopolies are
unavoidable, the Government has a duty to act in defence of the public interest through
controls on profits or prices. In these circumstances, the community is entitled to the
information it needs to judge whether or not the regulators are properly protecting its
interests, as they are supposed to do. At present, the type of financial data publicly available
varies greatly sector by sector, utility by utility. We intend to deal with this by asking all
companies which provide essential utility or transport services, including those which are
not publicly listed, to accept new standards of financial disclosure to the public. In addition
to standard financial statements, such as a profit and loss account and balance sheet, these
would include publication of separate information on the financial and operational activities
of the regulated parts of their business.
SPEEDING UP THE TRAFFIC
Record road densities
16. Last year I said too little about transport, yet we all know that good transportation,
both within our community and between us and our main markets, is crucial to our quality
of life and our prosperity. For its size, Hong Kong has a great many cars. The number of
private cars has increased by 62% over the last five years. We have 270 vehicles for every
kilometre of road, compared to 68 in the United Kingdom and just 11 in China. It is a
tribute to our transport system — to the individual driver as well as the police and the
traffic engineers — that anything moves at all. In fact, our traffic is moving rather faster
now than it did in the mid-1980s. Nevertheless, traffic densities at Hong Kong's levels can
be extremely harmful to our environment, our economy and our well-being.
17. We have responded to Members' concerns on this score with an extensive road
building programme to relieve these miseries. We will spend nearly $9 billion on road
construction and improvements next year, double the amount spent last year. Apart from the
Airport Core Programme projects, major items will include the widening of Lung Cheung
and Ching Cheung roads and completion of the Yuen Long Southern By-pass. We also
propose to start building the Ting Kau Bridge.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 19
A driver-friendly system
18. Our number one priority has to be to keep traffic moving, to make the road system as
user-friendly as possible. That means making a determined effort to ease the strains on
commuters and commercial vehicle drivers who have to brave the notorious bottlenecks in
our road network simply to get to work. Over the next four years, we propose to spend
nearly $2 billion on a package of improvements. We will:
- construct new climbing lanes on the Tuen Mun Highway;
- introduce surveillance cameras to cover the entire length of the highway and the
container port approaches, enabling us to take prompt measures to clear broken
down vehicles before they cause traffic snarl-ups;
- upgrade and expand our computerized Area Traffic Control systems in Kowloon
and the New Territories to cover 550 junctions. This should improve peak hour
traffic speeds by at least 10% in the worst affected districts;
- reconstruct and upgrade many of our most heavily used local roads throughout
the territory; and
- introduce tougher controls on road excavation, a major and particularly irritating
cause of road congestion.
The China freight load
19. Within Hong Kong, traffic volumes have grown in recent years. But at the border they
have positively mushroomed. We have seen an enormous expansion of our business with
southern China, fuelling our economic power over the last decade. But there is a transport
cost to pay.
- The number of heavy and medium goods vehicles is up 70% in the last five years.
- The volume of traffic entering Hong Kong from Guangdong is up 90% over the
same period.
- By 1997, we expect the flow of road traffic entering Hong Kong to rise by a
further 60%.
We will need to relieve the strain of cross-border commercial traffic on our road system in
ways that promote our growing trade. And we shall have to give careful consideration to a
new railway link through the western New Territories to the container port.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 20
SERVING THE NEXT CENTURY
20. But the overriding challenge in developing our infrastructure is how to meet the
demands both of our own economic expansion and of China's modernization. So we have to
construct the port, airport, road and rail facilities to cope with continued economic
expansion well into the next century. There are some projects which we can undertake and
complete by 1997 entirely from our own resources. In other cases, financing or construction
will require a longer time frame.
21. Our ability to proceed with major projects straddling 1997 depends in the last resort on
our success in persuading the Chinese Government to agree to them. Sometimes securing
agreement requires prolonged discussions. Where the length of these discussions threatens
the completion of a project, I believe that we should still do everything we prudently can to
take these vital projects forward as far as we are able. The alternative would be effectively
to delay or abandon projects which encounter opposition, and I do not believe that would be
right or acceptable to the people of Hong Kong.
22. Hong Kong's infrastructural needs are clear. We will continue to plan to meet them;
press on with our endeavours to complete projects on time and within budget; and persevere
in our efforts to win the Chinese Government's co-operation. Unless we can secure that cooperation soon over financing the new airport project and Container Terminal 9, Hong
Kong faces the unhappy prospect of delays in the modernization of its port and airport
facilities. At the end of the day, the best we can do is to emphasize to our Chinese
colleagues that these projects are essential, not just to the future Hong Kong SAR but also
to southern China.
The airport: close to the limits
23. A year ago, I said that the case for Hong Kong's new airport was overwhelming, that it
deserved to be built and that it would be built. While continuing to seek an overall
agreement with the Chinese Government, we have pressed ahead resolutely with the airport
core projects in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding.
24. And we are doing very well. Work on the Airport Core Programme (ACP) is moving
forward in record time, with all the contracts let so far within budget and progressing well.
In other words we are proceeding in typical Hong Kong fashion.
- Airport: the Site Preparation Contract for the new airport — one of the biggest
civil engineering projects in the world — is well under way. Hong Kong is now
home to the world's largest dredging fleet. Since November last year, about 250
hectares of the
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 21
airport island have been formed — nearly the size of Kai Tak airport (289
hectares).
- Government works: 28 major government contracts within the ACP, worth
almost $30 billion, are already under way. With the support of Members of this
Council, 81% of the government works have now been funded, and of this
funding 70% has now been contractually committed. Amongst these projects is
the contract for the construction of the Tsing Ma Bridge — the world's longest
suspension bridge carrying a railway as well as a road. One of the main towers for
this bridge is close to its final 200 metre height — as tall as a Central skyscraper.
All the key contracts for the North Lantau Expressway, the sections of Route 3
linking north Kowloon with the Lantau Fixed Crossing, and the West Kowloon
Expressway have also been let.
- Western Harbour Crossing: with the support both of this Council and of the
Chinese Government, the franchise for the Western Harbour Crossing has been
granted and work on constructing the tunnel is now under way.
- Airport Railway: detailed design, route protection and other advance works are
under way, although construction of the airport railway will not start until we
have an agreement on its financing.
25. We have taken the pragmatic option of doing what we can to build the airport, as I said
last year, "not for Britain, but for Hong Kong and southern China". But this pragmatism
will not build the whole Airport Core Programme. The date is not far off when the start of
some key airport contracts will be held up if we cannot secure the Chinese Government's
agreement on financing.
The port's delays
26. By the same token, I regret to inform this Council that the Chinese Government's
failure to agree to our proposals for the construction of Container Terminal 9 is causing
worrying delay to essential port expansion.
27. Let me spell out what is involved here.
- The port and its related business generate 15% of GDP and jobs for 350 000
people.
- Last year, our port handled 87% of our external trade — 100 million tonnes of
cargo, including 8 million containers.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 22
- If CT9 is delayed by even two years, the economic loss to Hong Kong will be $20
billion in the decade after 1997.
28. So the development of CT9 is urgent. The present delay will hamper our ability to
service the export-led growth of southern China as fully as we would wish to — and as
China has indicated it wishes us to do. Ships will be turned away, and they may not return
to use our port. The delay will also lead to longer traffic queues at our existing port
facilities, aggravating congestion throughout the rest of the transport network and directly
reducing the quality of life for the public at large. Once again, let me reassure this Council
that we will do our level best to move the development of our new container terminals
forward.
29. Let me make three final points about all these great infrastructure projects which will
contribute so much to Hong Kong's future.
- First, we have done all we can to take these issues forward. We do not link
political and livelihood issues. For the Government of Hong Kong, the first
priority is, and always has been, the well-being of the people of Hong Kong.
- Second, when negotiators reach agreement on these matters, they are not doing
Hong Kong a favour. They are doing their job.
- Third, if we do not make the progress that we could and should make, it will be
the people of Hong Kong and China, especially our neighbours in Guangdong,
who suffer. I do not wish to see that. There is no excuse whatsoever for playing
politics with Hong Kong's economic prospects.
THE ENVIRONMENT: A JOINT VENTURE
30. Just as important as our efforts to build — literally — for the future are our continuing
endeavours to create a better and cleaner environment for our people. Hong Kong is
gradually getting cleaner. But it is not nearly clean enough.
31. We will shortly publish the second review of the 1989 White Paper on Pollution in
Hong Kong. It is a good document. We have done a good deal. But for all our achievements,
there is one thing we have not managed to do and that is to mobilize the enthusiastic
support of our community behind our efforts to clean up our environment.
32. To help us do better, I propose to establish an Environment and Conservation Fund for
Hong Kong. This Council will be asked to approve an initial capital injection of $50 million.
The Fund will help to pay for environmental education and research. It will also allow us to
give welcome
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 23
material assistance to "green groups" undertaking worthwhile environmental projects.
Saving the environment needs everyone's commitment.
Environmental audits
33. Above all, we will have to recruit more business leaders to our campaign to protect the
environment. It is they who must be in its vanguard. I am pleased to say that many of them
have made it clear that they are willing to get involved. The work of the Private Sector
Committee on the Environment is clear evidence of this. In particular, we will be inviting
businesses:
- to conduct environmental and energy efficiency audits of their companies;
- to appoint a "green manager" within each of their organizations to promote
environmental awareness; and
- to work closely with those bodies — such as the Centre of Environmental
Technology, the Environmental Campaign Committee and the tertiary
institutions — which can help them to become more environmentally aware.
34. All government departments will appoint their own "green managers".
Cleaning up the countryside
35. The most depressing example of the way in which we abuse our natural heritage is the
New Territories. It is easy to romanticize the past and lament the growth of our new towns
and industrial estates. I have no wish to turn back the clock. But existing legislation has
failed to stop the haphazard conversion of farmland into storage and dumping sites. This
has seriously affected the quality of life for many in the New Territories through flooding,
health hazards and road congestion.
36. We therefore propose to set up a task force bringing together a number of government
departments, with a commitment to clean up the New Territories over the next decade. This
will be no easy task. It will involve tougher enforcement action against unauthorized land
use, making available new sites for storage and undertaking major improvement works. In a
place as small and as crowded as Hong Kong, we have a duty to make the best of what
countryside we have left. Several billion dollars will be required over the period. We will be
coming to this Council shortly with proposals on how to start this work during the coming
year.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 24
THE WORKFORCE
A sorry record
37. Hong Kong's only real natural resource is its people. We have an excellent record on
education, training and retraining and employment law. But there is one area where an
otherwise impressive record is a great deal less impressive — industrial safety. Our record
here is unacceptable. In Hong Kong, a worker's chances of being injured at work are several
times higher than that of his or her counterparts in most other developed economies.
38. And that is only half the picture. There are even worse statistics. In the construction
industry, each worker has a 30% chance of being injured every year. Of the 65 people killed
in industrial accidents in Hong Kong last year, 48 were in the construction industry. The
horrific lift accident in June at a North Point construction site brought home to me the
urgent need to replace the culture of carelessness which leads to accidents with a culture of
safety. We must try much harder to prevent accidents like that from happening again. The
Factory Inspectorate has been doing a valiant job, often in the face of indifference and
complacency, to make things better. We will ensure that it has additional staff to police the
workplace more effectively in the future. But the Factory Inspectorate cannot transform
things on their own. The primary responsibility for preventing accidents lies with
employers, contractors and workers. We intend to get very tough with those, both
employers and employees, who continue to believe that the laws to promote safety at work
do not apply to them.
39. In the coming months, we will be presenting to this Council legislative proposals
designed:
- to make the employment of safety officers compulsory on construction sites
employing 100 or more people;
- to increase substantially penalties for breaching safety-at-work regulations;
- to prohibit untrained young people from working on construction sites;
- to introduce new regulations on suspended working platforms; and
- to introduce stricter controls on the maintenance of passenger hoists on
construction sites.
40. The Government has a duty to set an example by demanding the highest standards
from those who undertake projects on its behalf. We will be bringing forward proposals to
strengthen safety on construction sites in particular. Contractors who fail to meet safety
standards will not be awarded government
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 25
work. Through the recently established Construction Advisory Board, the Government and
the private sector are working together to transform safety attitudes throughout the
workforce.
A wider retraining net
41. The Government's role in securing the well-being of the workforce goes beyond
industrial safety. Members of this Council have frequently drawn attention to the need to
provide training for those who lose their jobs because of industrial restructuring and
technological decline. Last year, we established the Employees' Retraining Fund to provide
such workers with new skills. Since its foundation, it has enrolled over 4 000 trainees. They
have had no difficulty in moving on to new jobs.
42. Experience over the last year indicates that the Fund has the capacity to provide
retraining for more groups than the most obvious casualties affected by industrial relocation
and reorganization. The Fund's coverage should be extended to others in need of such
assistance:
- to help the victims of industrial accidents to return to employment, often in
different trades or industries; and
- to help, through retraining, elderly and disabled workers to become productive
members of the labour force.
43. If ordinary members of the workforce are regarded as in special need of retraining
facilities in order to deal with the impact of economic restructuring, how much more
vulnerable must be those injured in industrial accidents, the disabled and the elderly? We
shall co-operate with the Vocational Training Council and the Employees' Retraining Board
to ensure that these groups have the training opportunities they need to acquire the work
skills to equip them for employment.
EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION
44. Nothing is more important to parents than securing the best possible future for our
children. And that means, as it has always done, making sure that they get a first class
education. Hong Kong has come a long way in the last 15 years. Although we only
embarked on universal lower secondary education in 1978, by next year we will have
provided first-degree places for four out of five of our sixth-formers who qualify for entry
into tertiary institutions. Now we need to go one better. As I said last year, it is not just
quantity but quality that counts. We need the best possible results from our education
system. We must raise teaching standards. That is the message from Members of this
Council, from the teaching profession and from parents.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 26
Higher teaching standards
45. You cannot expect to get higher quality teaching without even better qualified teachers.
I made an initial commitment to this goal in last year's policy address. Now, we can go
further towards meeting the targets set by Education Commission Report No. 5. Between
now and 1997, we intend to spend a great deal more money — an extra $354 million, in
fact:
- to upgrade about 860 primary school teaching posts to graduate level; and
- to expand the number of graduate teachers in our secondary schools by an
additional 800 by 1994.
A better learning environment
46. But it is no good having first-class teachers teaching in second-rate school buildings.
We cannot expect our children to perform at their best in noisy and uncomfortable
classrooms. Over the last year, we have installed air-conditioners in 24 schools under the
Noise Abatement Programme — and another 2 300 classrooms will be air-conditioned this
year. I hope that will take some of the heat out of the issue, and out of the classroom. But it
is becoming obvious that we need to tackle the larger problem of older schools built to
specifications of yesterday rather than today.
47. The Education Commission has identified the need for additional teaching space,
better facilities for teachers, more room for extracurricular and student activities, as well as
for a library in each primary school. This Council will be asked to approve the
establishment of a School Improvement Programme, the initial stage of which will cost
over $600 million. Its first target will be to modernize 60 primary and 50 secondary schools
over the next two years. This is an important investment in providing our students with the
physical facilities they need in order to excel.
Focusing on skills
48. Better teachers, smaller classes and more comfortable classrooms. Three key
improvements, which will allow our schools to devote more attention to improving the
skills which our youngsters will need during their careers. There are three other areas in
which we need to make a special effort:
- first, much better standards of Chinese (including Putonghua) both in response to
our growing interdependence with the Chinese economy and in preparation for
1997;
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 27
- second, high standards of English to meet the demands of the global business
community and to maintain Hong Kong's position as the premier Asian business
location; and
- third, computer literacy so that our young workers have the primary employment
qualification of the next century.
The Language Fund
49. The importance of Chinese language skills will grow substantially in the future. There
will be increasing calls for men and women with immaculate Putonghua and written
Chinese. Partly this will reflect Hong Kong's changed political circumstances after 1997.
But economic pressures are already driving the demand for more and better Mandarin
speakers, pressures which will surely intensify in the run-up to 1997 as our business firms
look more and more beyond Guangdong province and ever deeper into China for new
projects.
50. But if we need to do something about Chinese, we have to do something about English
as well. Many people believe that standards of spoken and written English in Hong Kong
are declining. We cannot afford to let that happen. The truth is that English is the global
language of business and science and will remain so after 1997. People in China seem to
have noticed that fact — at least 60 million of them take part in the BBC's English courses.
Our current teaching methods clearly do not achieve the results that parents, prospective
employers and the students themselves want. We need a new approach.
51. I therefore propose that a Language Fund should be created, with an immediate initial
allocation of $300 million, to launch programmes to improve proficiency in both Chinese
and English. The first step must be to upgrade the skills of our language teachers. There
will be new, intensive courses to help them. We will develop additional teaching materials
to support the teacher in the classroom. We also need to improve the language learning
opportunities for students, not only in the classroom but also through extracurricular
activities. We will be looking for the most up-to-date approaches for achieving this goal.
Computer literacy
52. Computing skills, the ability to use basic word processing, database and spreadsheet
programmes, will be vital to our continued development as an international services centre
in the next century. Currently, we have fewer than 5 000 computers in our schools, and only
about one in three of our secondary students pursues some sort of computer training. Both
figures are far too low. We cannot begin to raise standards of computer literacy until the
computer is as common in the classroom as a blackboard.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 28
53. Hong Kong has one of the highest rates of home computer use in the world. We now
have to transfer that enthusiasm for computing to the classroom. To achieve that, we will
provide a computer for every place on a computer course in secondary schools. As a result,
the number of computers in schools will double next year to over 9 000, at a cost of $114
million.
The children at risk
54. Life is competitive in Hong Kong, more competitive than in most other places. There
are few areas that are more competitive than education. This is an issue on which Members
of this Council have expressed considerable concern. This community cares passionately
about schooling. But none of us would want to impose excessive burdens on our
children — or on parents. Push hard, yes. Over the limit, no.
Opportunities for all
55. Fostering excellence does not mean discarding the less gifted. Over the next three
years, each school with a high proportion of Band 5 students will receive an additional
graduate teacher to assist in teaching this group of students. We will also set up a team to
develop a special curriculum for this category of students and to produce appropriate
teaching aids. It is only fair that these students should find a full opportunity for developing
their talents throughout their school careers even if they lack an aptitude for examinations.
We need a workforce which has the very best qualifications. But we should not make the
mistake of believing that the search for paper qualifications is the exclusive yardstick of a
successful schooling, important though it undoubtedly is.
Pre-schooling problems
56. More than 85% of children under six now go to kindergartens before joining primary
schools. And a good thing too. A good kindergarten can lay firm foundations for a child's
future education. So we cannot ignore this sector of our educational system as we strive for
quality. That is why we propose to bring forward to next year, from the original 1997 target
date, the scheduled improvements to the Kindergarten Fee Remission Scheme. We propose
to spend an additional $42 million over the next four years. This means that those parents
who send their children to kindergartens, but who face difficulties in affording the fees, will
be able to obtain further financial assistance. Over the next four years, about 20 000
families will benefit from this measure. That is a worthwhile investment in our children,
and an excellent investment in Hong Kong's future.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 29
HOUSING TO SERVE SOCIETY
57. Another important investment for the future is our housing. Our public housing
programmes are among Hong Kong's greatest achievements. Over the last four decades, we
have created an impressive supply of decent, affordable public housing, which has steadily
improved in terms of design and facilities over the years. That is a considerable feat, a great
tribute to all involved and the envy of many other cities in the world. But as most of your
postbags tell you, and as my visits to districts tell me, there is a great deal more to do.
Meeting demand
58. The Housing Authority has not only met, it has actually beaten, the targets I set out in
last year's address by producing an average of 140 units per day against the objective of 100,
and by rehousing 12 000 temporary housing area (THA) residents this year. This means that
we may well be able to do better than our original target over the next three years and,
hence, offer flats to all current THA residents by 1997. By 1996, we should also be able to
clear the THAs built before 1984.
The quality of management
59. For over 40% of our population, life in Hong Kong means life in a public housing
estate. Our quality of life as a community is very much to be judged by the quality of life on
these estates.
60. I have asked the new Chairman of the Housing Authority to consider the following
proposals:
- improved commitments to prompt repairs and higher standards of maintenance;
- improved security measures on the estates; and
- a long-term commitment to higher quality housing management.
Home ownership
61. Over the years, Members of this Council have drawn attention to the special
difficulties of the sandwich class in becoming home owners. Last year, I announced a major
initiative to help this group to buy its own homes. The first phase of the interim low-interest
housing loan scheme has been launched and went well. It was oversubscribed three and a
half times, a very good start. Planning is in hand for the production of flats under the
longer-term scheme, to be ready for sale in 1995. But the price spiral for private residential
flats is still
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 30
making it too expensive for many first-time buyers to enter the market. We will continue to
discourage speculation.
62. An immediate practical measure is to speed up processing of private sector housing
projects. We intend to give additional staff to the Lands Department in the coming year to
improve processing time for lease modifications and land exchanges. That way, an extra 2
000 flats — on top of the current 15 000 or so — should reach the market each year.
PATIENT-CENTRED HEALTH
63. We all want to be well-housed, and Hong Kong has invested heavily in meeting the
community's needs. We are also investing heavily in the health of our people. The Hospital
Authority has made considerable improvements since its establishment in 1991. I pay warm
tribute to all who work in our hospitals and clinics — our doctors, our nurses, all those who
care for us when we are sick.
Cutting the queues
64. For the community as a whole, the immediate measure of the quality of hospital
service is waiting times, particularly for surgery. Let me remind Members of one or two of
the facts about the present position. Patients who require urgent surgery of course get the
treatment they need right away. They are not put on a waiting list. Waiting lists apply solely
to elective surgery.
65. But we must make a further assault on all delays and queuing times for medical
treatment. Among other improvements, the Hospital Authority will next year reduce:
- average waiting times for non-urgent ear, nose and throat surgery from four
months to below three months;
- average waiting times for a first appointment in 80% of specialist out-patient
clinics from four months to less than three months; and
- average queuing times for a consultation at 10 specialist clinics from 120 minutes
to under 90 minutes.
All public hospitals will be asking patients what they think of the services provided. Some
are already doing so. I urge patients to let hospitals have their views. Only by knowing what
you think can we serve you better.
66. While the standard of medical treatment is generally high, the amenities in many of
our clinics and hospitals fall well below the standards of efficiency, cleanliness and comfort
which Hong Kong expects. Last year I announced a
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 31
major drive to improve our general clinics. We must now upgrade our specialist clinics and
hospitals.
- We intend to spend $287 million over the next four years to refurbish and expand
the specialist clinics at the Queen Elizabeth and Prince of Wales Hospitals. In the
process, we shall cut average waiting times for first consultation by around 25%.
- We intend to spend $565 million over the same period to establish a Hospital
Improvement Programme. This money will help us to renovate buildings,
modernize operating theatres, extend air-conditioning and improve support
facilities, initially at 13 hospitals.
Care for the chronically ill
67. We must all be thankful that for many formerly life-threatening illnesses, modern
medicine offers treatment even though the condition cannot be "cured". However, patients
with chronic illness require continuing care and advice to enable them to lead as full and
comfortable lives as possible. Diabetics, for example, need expert medical advice on how to
adjust their diets and care for themselves to minimize the danger of complications.
68. Services for these groups are relatively new in Hong Kong and have been largely
pioneered by dedicated volunteers from the medical, nursing and social work professions
and by patient-support groups. They do a very good job, and they deserve our continuing
support. In 1994, I propose to allocate an additional $32 million:
- to expand our renal dialysis programmes to provide additional life-saving services
and support for an extra 135 kidney patients; and
- to provide rehabilitation services for 3 900 chronically ill patients, significantly
improving their quality of life.
A hospice programme
69. Despite all the wonderful advances in medical science, there are still some in our
community who have to cope with illness for which there is no cure. Any civilized
community has a duty to ensure the maximum degree of comfort and dignity for these
people. Hong Kong is fortunate that it already has the nucleus of a hospice service, for
which we are indebted once again to the dedication of volunteer doctors, nurses, other
professionals and generous benefactors.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 32
70. We will continue to rely on these inspiring people. But they also need our help. The
time has now come for the Government to support the rapid expansion of this service. In
1994, the Hospital Authority will provide hospice care for 500 additional patients, helping
to relieve pain and to control symptoms, as well as offering psychological, spiritual and
bereavement support.
Support for nurses
71. The quality of patient care in our hospitals depends in large measure upon the quality
and numbers of nurses. Over the past two years, the Hospital Authority has been able to put
1 100 extra nurses on to the wards, an increase of 7% over 1991. We forecast that
recruitment will increase from 1 845 in 1992 to 2 020 this year. But more hospital beds
mean that, in addition to replacements for those who leave the service, we will need another
500 nurses every year for the next four years if we are to keep up with even the current ratio
of nurses to patients. The Hospital Authority is confident that it will be able to achieve this
target.
72. We are determined to enhance the professional status and expertise of nurses. So we
will:
- sponsor selected individuals to attend degree conversion courses;
- offer nurses additional training within the Hospital Authority and the Department
of Health;
- provide more degree places to allow young people to take up nursing
qualifications at the tertiary level; and
- create additional specialized posts within both the Hospital Authority and the
Department of Health.
WELFARE: A FAMILY AFFAIR
The Year of the Family
73. In 1994, the world will mark the "International Year of the Family". I hope we will be
able to use this occasion to reaffirm the family's role as the basic building block for a stable
society.
74. Children are at the heart of the family and any effort to strengthen the family unit must
surely begin with them. Families with children requiring special attention deserve an
especially high priority. We now intend to supplement existing services with a package of
measures costing $29 million a year:
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 33
- to recruit more staff to enable family social workers to spend more time with each
client;
- to support "resource centres" for parents and relatives;
- to develop programmes for autistic children in Special Child Care Centres; and
- to relieve the strain on parents by providing centres where disabled children can
be looked after for short periods during the day.
Children's allowances
75. We should also see what extra financial help families in need require. Last year, I
announced a major improvement in the levels of social security.
- The total benefits for a single person receiving Comprehensive Social Security
Assistance now average $2,000 a month. This is a real increase of 10% over
average total benefits this time last year.
- The total benefits for a four-person household receiving Comprehensive Social
Security Assistance now average $5,880 a month. This is a real increase of 13%
over average total benefits this time last year.
76. Despite these real improvements, many Members argued persuasively that our social
security benefits still need adjustment to meet the special circumstances of particular
groups. This is very much the case with children who depend on social security. I, therefore,
propose that, from April next year, the monthly allowance paid to these children should be
raised by $100. This means that a disabled child will then receive $1,995 per month, an
able-bodied child $1,095.
77. This is by no means all the social security benefits available to children in need. A
very broad range of grants — from school fees to meal costs, travel and other expenses can
be tailored to meet the needs of the individual child.
The mentally handicapped at risk
78. Already 7 850 mentally handicapped people are benefiting from places provided in
training institutions, hostels and homes. This year, we are spending $405 million on
providing services for them. Next year, we propose to increase recurrent spending on the
mentally handicapped by 23% in real terms.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 34
79. Last year I pledged the necessary funds for meeting in full key targets in rehabilitation
services by 1997. This means there will be an additional 3 930 residential places for people
with various disabilities, as well as an extra 3 760 places in day services for mentally
handicapped people. An urgent task must be to press forward to achieve these targets. We
must reduce the time that mentally handicapped people have to wait for places in sheltered
workshops and special hostels.
80. We cannot accept the lengthy queues for these facilities because of the additional
burden they impose on those caring for the mentally handicapped. Moreover, if they are
given proper care and training at an early date, mentally handicapped people can often learn
to live reasonably independent and productive lives. This year, we have cut the waiting time
for admission to hostels for the severely disabled by 20%. This is a good start. The
Secretary for Health and Welfare will be looking for further practical measures to reduce
waiting times which can be taken in the coming year. These could include mobilizing
community support for expansion of services through non-governmental organizations and
the promotion of open or self-employment.
81. Meeting the needs of the mentally handicapped — and the mentally ill — can be
frustrated if some sections of the community resist the establishment of facilities in their
neighbourhoods. The Government has a responsibility to encourage a caring approach
through consultation exercises and educational programmes. Over the next three years, we
propose to spend $20 million on public education activities in this field. But we have an
even greater responsibility to look after our neighbours' children who suffer from these
disabilities and to protect them from prejudice and abuse. As a caring community, we must
respond to the problems of our disabled members with support and compassion.
A SECURE OLD AGE
82. Social change has the tiresome habit of creeping up on communities — and their
governments — and taking them by surprise. There is, however, one change going to take
place in our society, the early signs of which are already visible and whose effects we can
actually prepare for. Already this Council and many groups in the community have started
to focus attention on the impact of Hong Kong's ageing population.
- First, in mid-1997, nearly 11% of the population will be aged 65 and over. By
then, we will have an extra 87 000 elderly men and women to look after.
- Second, the numbers of very old people are steadily rising. By mid-1997, we will
have an extra 44 000 men and women aged 75 and over to look after, many of
them very frail or unable to live independently.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 35
- Third, advances in medicine will make it increasingly possible to prolong the
lives of the elderly, even after serious illnesses, but only at very considerable cost
in terms of expensive medical technology and hospital care.
The basic tasks
83. People have a right to a dignified and comfortable old age. We already do a great deal
to help them achieve that. This year, we are spending close to $6 billion on services
targeted at the elderly. Old people currently account for almost 40% of our hospital patients.
Nevertheless, despite our present efforts, too many of our elderly people feel vulnerable.
84. I am keen that we should try to dispel some of their anxieties. I have decided to set up
a special Working Group. It will report directly to me on what more could and should be
done to provide the sort of integrated care for the elderly that they need and which Hong
Kong can afford. That will obviously take a little while. But we cannot just sit back and do
nothing while we wait for its recommendations. We must begin work immediately on an
interim but far-reaching programme to tackle the most serious shortfalls in existing
services.
The health priorities
85. We must start with health. The highest priority for all elderly people is access to firstclass medical care. The standard of treatment they receive is the difference between
crippling discomfort as a result of health problems and a return to a relatively active and
independent life. It is all to easy to think of old age itself as an illness and to look upon the
hospital or infirmary bed as the appropriate way to deal with the increasing frailty and
disability that old age brings. All too often, communities fail to recognize the elderly
person's capacity for recovery or rehabilitation. I believe that, in Hong Kong, we must take
great care to avoid falling into traps of this sort.
86. Let us start with the most serious health needs of our elderly. I want to reassure our
elderly community:
- first, the provision of hospital facilities for acute geriatric cases has been made an
urgent priority; and
- second, by 1997, we will provide an additional 461 acute beds and day places for
elderly patients. This will enable us to meet demand in full.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 36
The infirmary shortfall
87. The story is less good when it comes to looking after those old people who need care
and treatment — but not necessarily in a hospital. At the moment, our facilities are limited.
Already we have 5 400 people waiting for infirmary places. By 1997, we expect to have 7
800 elderly people requiring some form of residential medical and nursing care. But on
present plans, we will have only 1 200 extra beds to cope with them. That is a problem that
will go from bad to worse unless we act decisively now.
A nursing home network
88. The answer, I believe, is for us to develop as rapidly as possible a network of nursing
homes with medical and nursing facilities. These homes could then care for elderly patients
who would otherwise have to remain in hospital or in an infirmary. The Secretary for
Health and Welfare is drawing up plans for an initial seven nursing homes providing 1 400
beds at a capital cost of about $800 million and an annual recurrent cost of $150 million.
We plan to have them in operation by 1997. How to fill the remaining shortfall will be an
urgent priority for the new Working Group.
The family's support
89. Sometimes institutional care is unavoidable. But wherever possible, we should seek
alternatives. The best solution is care in the family. And thankfully Hong Kong families are
usually very happy to look after their elderly members. But they are entitled to expect
expert support.
90. We have made a start through creating specialist medical teams. Next year, these will
provide health care, assessment and rehabilitation services for a total of 55 700 elderly
people living in the community. We have also backed the development of home help teams
to assist old people to continue to lead independent lives or to remain with their families. A
total of 6 500 elderly people will benefit from this service next year.
91. I want the new Working Group I have announced to look at two other areas: whether
current levels of community support services are sufficient; and what else we could do to
enable our elderly to lead their own lives and to remain in the community, close to family
and friends. Wherever possible, this should be our main aim.
The housing solution
92. We also need to look closely at how we house our elderly. Families cannot care for
their elderly relatives if they lack the necessary space and
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 37
facilities. Nor can elderly people be expected to live happily in accommodation designed
for young, growing families rather than for the problems and difficulties of old age.
93. I have asked the new Chairman of the Housing Authority to see what we can do to
provide more accommodation specially designed to meet the needs of the elderly and their
families. The Authority has considerable experience of providing accommodation for the
elderly. It already offers special inducements to families which take care of an elderly
relative. It has introduced the concept of sheltered housing successfully. With this
experience, I know we can rely on the Authority to come forward rapidly with specific
proposals:
- to clear the backlog of around 4 000 elderly single people on the waiting list by
1997;
- to give priority to the elderly who apply for public housing from now on; and
- to tackle urgently the much larger problem of some 27 000 elderly men and
women who are not on the waiting list at all but who have all but resigned
themselves to substandard accommodation.
94. That said, whatever our efforts to keep the elderly with their families and to provide
sheltered housing for the older age groups, there will also be some who require a degree of
institutional care. We now urgently need an additional 800 care-and-attention places over
and above our White Paper targets. We aim to provide these over the next two years.
Retirement incomes
95. Almost the worst worry to have in old age is money. This is an anxiety that gnaws
away at old people's peace of mind. It is an anxiety that has generated a protracted debate
on how best to provide for a financially secure old age. The current position in Hong Kong
is basically this.
- Some 850 000 employees, or 30% of the workforce, are already members of
retirement schemes provided by their employers.
- A further 137 000 men and women, or 5% of the workforce, hold pensionable
posts in the Civil Service.
- Altogether, 35% of the workforce is currently covered by some form of pension
or provident fund arrangement.
96. This is quite a solid base. But where do we go from here? And how do we get there?
We finished our extensive consultation exercise early this year. This showed very clearly
what the two fundamental issues for us are.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 38
- Should Hong Kong start a compulsory scheme or continue to rely on voluntary
arrangements between staff and their employers?
- Should funds be centrally managed or left to be privately invested?
And it showed equally clearly that the community is some way from having made up its
mind. Views were also divided on important practical matters, such as who should be
covered by the scheme and what the Government's involvement should be.
97. Nevertheless, there is a powerful sentiment within this Council and among the
community at large in support of more comprehensive arrangements to cover the entire
workforce. The Government is in the final stages of identifying how to respond to this
sentiment. This is an intensely difficult issue, one of the most difficult we will face in the
next few years. It goes to the heart of our attitudes towards saving and investment, as well
as to provision for the elderly. Clearly, this Council will need to be satisfied with the
outcome, and will play a key role in shaping it. It will take time to establish a consensus in
the community for the right way forward, but in my judgement, we would be well advised
to take our time and get things right. Notwithstanding the complexity and difficulty of the
issue, the community expects a clear indication of the Government's thinking. I intend to
announce our proposals on the way forward before the end of the year.
A protected old age
98. The steps I have announced today will go a long way, I hope, to relieve the anxieties
which overshadow old age. A long way to remedy the worst shortfalls in the provision of
services for the elderly. A long way to empower families to provide the warmth and shelter
of continued family care for their elderly relatives.
A SAFE AND HONEST CITY
Against world trends
99. Old people, young people, all of us want a safe community to live in. Throughout the
world, cities impose enormous pressures on the family and other traditional social
institutions. As they grow in size and wealth, cities become more difficult to police, the
pickings for criminals grow bigger and bigger, while poorer neighbourhoods can become
dominated by criminal gangs.
100. Compared with other large cities, Hong Kong has done pretty well. Unlike most cities,
key crime rates here — already low — are actually falling. This year, violent crime is down
by 6%. Vehicle theft, a major cause of concern last year, is down by a quarter. Why has
crime fallen? The answer is
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 39
complex and clearly a buoyant economy with full employment, coupled with subsidized
housing and an effective social services safety net, are part of the explanation. But a great
deal of the credit must go to our excellent police force who, day in day out, fight the
criminal on our streets. Professional, disciplined and courageous, they are one of the finest
police forces in the world. In recent weeks, we have witnessed once again the dangers they
face as a matter of routine in the difficult job they do. I pay warm tribute to them all, and to
all the other law enforcement agencies who work alongside them.
Criminal conspiracies
101. So much for the good news. But behind the figures are still too many crimes, too many
lives risked, too many innocent victims. So our drive against crime must continue —
without letup. We will continue to fight crime by giving our police officers the legal
weapons they need to deal with organized crime and by putting as many police as we can
on the beat through our successful recruitment programme. I am delighted to tell this
Council that so far this year, we have recruited a thousand more police officers.
102. Criminal organizations remain a threat. Today's triad bosses are a far cry from the
bully boys and street fighters of the past. They are well-organized criminal entrepreneurs,
who frequently use legitimate business operations to conceal their intimidation and
extortion.
103. The police urgently need the powers contained in the Organized and Serious Crimes
Bill already before this Council for 16 months. Of course Members must scrutinize the
Bill's provisions for their impact on the rights of the individual. But our policemen and
women are facing a serious threat now. They need the powers to crack down hard on
criminal gangs as soon as possible. I urge the Council to press on speedily with your work
on this Bill.
Corruption: a new challenge
104. If we are to maintain Hong Kong's reputation as a city in which people can live, work
and carry on their business free from intimidation and extortion, we have to deal ruthlessly
with corruption. The very low level of corruption that Hong Kong has achieved over the
last two decades has been a major asset in our development as an international business
centre.
105. Hong Kong already makes relentless efforts to enforce the highest standards of
personal integrity within the public service. The criminal convictions this year of personnel
from the disciplined services, and even a member of this Council, show that we cannot
lower our guard. For its part, the Civil Service values the respect and co-operation from the
community which a reputation for professionalism and honesty has brought. This reputation
owes a great deal to the work of the Independent Commission Against Corruption over
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 40
the last 20 years. In 1994, the ICAC will start its third decade of operations. As ever, its
first priority will continue to be to ensure that the Civil Service continues to set a
conspicuous example to the rest of the community of freedom from malpractices of any
kind.
106. Despite our past successes, Hong Kong has become increasingly alarmed about
corruption over the last year. In the first eight months of 1993, the ICAC recorded a 44%
rise in complaints about corruption received from the public over the same period in 1992.
The increase affects the private as well as the public sector.
A stronger ICAC
107. I am determined that we give no quarter to corruption. We will provide the resources
next year for the ICAC to set up another investigation group with nearly 40 officers. This
will give the Operations Department more bite. The extra resources will also enable the
ICAC to respond effectively to complaints during the 1994 and 1995 elections. In addition,
another 30 officers will be redeployed to form a special working group to establish tighter
links with the private sector.
Business anxieties
108. The community is, of course, worried that our business sector is becoming more
vulnerable to corrupt practices. Equally, business leaders have urged me repeatedly to
ensure that as the barriers to trade and investment are reduced around the world, Hong
Kong's barriers to fraud and corruption are not lowered. Hong Kong has an interest in the
removal of all obstacles to the flow of trade and investment. But there is mounting
apprehension that our business sector will become tainted by the lower ethical standards it
encounters when it embarks on production or financial operations elsewhere. Our
businessmen are aware that our standing as Asia's leading business location would be in
danger if we relaxed our vigilance against malpractices.
Codes of conduct
109. In order to defend our business standards, I have directed the ICAC to launch a
campaign in co-operation with the major business associations and professional bodies.
110. The ICAC has considerable experience in helping businesses to develop voluntary
codes of practice to prevent business malpractice. I intend to build on this experience, and
we have set the following targets.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 41
- The ICAC will invite listed companies to urge their officers and staff to conduct
fair and open dealings with all customers, suppliers and contractors according to a
corporate code of conduct. The code will identify effective channels of complaint
from the public. We hope that other companies and businesses will quickly follow
their example.
- The ICAC will then invite all firms employing 100 staff or more to adopt similar
codes of conduct to enhance the integrity of their business operations.
- Chambers of Commerce and similar organizations will be asked to urge their
members to follow procedures which minimize the opportunities for malpractice
according to a code of conduct.
- The bodies which represent lawyers, accountants, engineers, surveyors and all the
other professions vital to our commercial well-being will be asked to ensure that
their existing codes of performance also encourage their members to be proactive in reporting corruption and in closing loopholes which allow malpractice to
survive.
- Legislation has recently been introduced to give auditors of financial institutions
protection in reporting fraud and other irregularities. This will be extended to the
auditors of all listed companies.
NATIONALITY ISSUES
111. I wish to turn briefly to an issue to which Members have devoted a great deal of time
and effort: the question of British nationality for British passport holders among the nonChinese ethnic minorities in Hong Kong and for the wives and widows of Hong Kong's exservicemen. It is very proper for this Council and for our society to ensure that the anxieties
of these people are not forgotten.
112. I have conveyed these concerns very vigorously to Ministers in London. They have
responded with formal reassurances both in statements to Parliament and in responses to the
Executive Council and Members of this Council. I have to say that these have not gone as
far as Hong Kong would want. Let me assure this Council that I will continue to press the
British Government as strongly as I can for a better deal for our ethnic minorities and for
the wives and widows of our ex-servicemen.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 42
AGAINST DISCRIMINATION
113. In a modern, urban society it is all too easy to ignore the rights and personal dignity of
the individual. It is particularly important that the Government should set its face against
such attitudes. I am therefore asking the Secretary for Home Affairs to take responsibility
for human rights issues and for related policy areas such as press freedom and data
protection. This arrangement will make it easier for the Government to respond to the
concerns of this Council and the community at large, some of which concerns we heard on
the subject of press freedom only this week.
A woman's place
114. Freedom from discrimination is one of the cornerstones of our open society. But I
know that many people believe that we have given insufficient attention to whether half of
our population, Hong Kong's women, are fairly treated and adequately protected. We issued
a Green Paper on women's rights in August to ascertain the views of the public on how to
promote equal opportunity and end discrimination. From the comments we have already
received, it is clear that the big issue for many people is whether Hong Kong should join
CEDAW — the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against
Women. We shall consider constructively the very strong views expressed by Members and
the public on this point, and I hope to be able to announce our decision early next year.
A FULLER LIFE
The artistic scene
115. For the community as a whole, higher personal incomes and increased leisure mean
that the arts have come to be enjoyed by a much wider section of the community.
116. Not surprisingly, a vigorous lobby has grown up which advocates a much greater
public commitment to the arts. We are currently spending over $500 million each year to
subsidize the arts. But there is widespread support for the creation of a statutory Arts
Development Council to give a new direction for the arts in Hong Kong and to ensure that,
in the years to come, the vitality and pluralism which are features of the local arts scene are
nurtured.
117. We have decided to establish a Provisional Arts Development Council in early 1994 to
prepare the ground for the establishment of the full Council. We propose to give the full
Council a generous financial start with a grant of $100 million. The additional funds will
provide seed money to enable the Council to make an impressive start. They will enable the
establishment of an independently staffed and managed Council, supporting new art forms
and
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 43
activities. To do the job effectively I will wish to appoint capable, committed members to
the Council, people who represent a wide cross-section of the arts community, and
performers as well as patrons. I am pleased that Sir Joseph HOTUNG has agreed to serve as
Chairman of the Provisional Arts Development Council.
Going for gold
118. In Hong Kong, we have the coaches and the dedicated sportsmen and sportswomen to
achieve sporting excellence. We now have the facilities, the showpiece of which will be the
new 40 000 capacity stadium due to be opened next year. The Sports Development Board
and the Hong Kong Sports Institute will be amalgamated from 1 April 1994, under a Bill
now before Members. We have spent more than $2 billion on new sporting facilities over
the past few years, and have recently injected $100 million into high performance sports
development and training to prepare our young athletes for the highest level of international
competition. Hong Kong is desperately keen to see its teams and athletes take on and beat
the world's best. I hope the sporting community will rise to this challenge and bring home
to Hong Kong a clutch of Olympic medals in 1996.
THE CIVIL SERVICE
Committed to service
119. There is one particular group that I would like to make special mention of this
afternoon. I pay tribute to their conscientiousness, their loyalty and their dedication to the
people of Hong Kong. I am talking, of course, about our excellent civil servants. I know it
has not always been an easy year for them. But I work with them closely every day, and I
know how they perform. Hong Kong is very lucky indeed to have them. The high standards
reached by our Civil Service owe a great deal to the dedication and leadership shown by Sir
David FORD. When he leaves his post of Chief Secretary at the end of next month, the
Civil Service, this Council and the community as a whole will owe him a considerable debt
of gratitude for the commitment he has shown to Hong Kong's interests throughout his
distinguished career. At the same time, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome
warmly Anson CHAN to her new post. I know that she will be an outstanding Chief
Secretary and provide inspiration and leadership to the Civil Service in the challenging
period ahead.
Pledges performed
120. The Civil Service responded enthusiastically to the call in last year's address for a new
commitment to serving the community. Wherever I go, those
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 44
civil servants who work most directly for the public talk of the difference it has made to
their clients and to their own job satisfaction.
- Already some 30 out of 50 government departments directly serving the public
have produced performance pledges. By the middle of next year, all will have
done so.
- Some 20 departments have user or customer liaison groups already in place.
- Over 4 400 government forms have been reviewed; 800 have been abolished or
combined; and over 1 600 have been made more user-friendly. That is good for
the Government, good for the public.
- Over 30 000 civil servants have attended training courses on the new service
culture.
121. Encouragingly, the concept of performance pledges and the service culture has found a
ready audience throughout the public sector as a whole. The Hospital Authority, the MTR
and the KCR have taken the lead in this. Five other statutory bodies have published pledges
at our invitation. Others will follow.
A pension fund
122. In December last year, we announced that we would investigate the feasibility of
establishing a pension reserve fund for the Civil Service. As we stressed at that time,
pensions are already secure.
- They are both a statutory right and a statutory charge on the general revenue, with
pensions increased each year in line with inflation.
- In addition, both the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law guarantee that pensions
will continue to be paid after 1997 on terms no less favourable than before that
date, and irrespective of nationality and place of residence.
123. Nevertheless, I recognize that civil servants are worried about the future payment of
their pensions after 1997. After detailed study, we now feel able to recommend that a
pension reserve fund be established by resolution of the Legislative Council under section
29 of the Public Finance Ordinance. Subject to this Council's approval, we also propose to
inject $7 billion into the Fund over two years, beginning this year. The Fund's resources
would be used exclusively to pay pensions in the unlikely event that they would not be
covered from general revenue. I cannot myself imagine Hong Kong ever facing a financial
crisis of this sort. But I believe that the fund will contribute to the Civil Service's
confidence in its future.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 45
124. Much work on the detail still needs to be done before putting the matter to the
Executive Council and this Council. The Chinese Government has indicated support for the
general concept but we will have to explore its views in detail. We also need to consult staff
representatives. I trust, however, that civil servants will take my announcement today as
evidence of the Government's determination to act as a good employer and to respond to the
concerns of its staff.
Principles of localization
125. I would like to turn to the future of the Civil Service.
126. As the head of the executive, I have a special responsibility to pave the way for Hong
Kong people running Hong Kong. To me this is not an abstract political concept, nor is it
concerned just with the representation of the people. It also means we must ensure that
before 1997 the Government is led as far as possible by local people, in particular by people
who can meet the requirements to serve as Principal Officials after 1997 in accordance with
the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law. In other words the posts of Chief Secretary,
Financial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Policy Secretaries and some others will be
filled by Chinese nationals who have no foreign right of abode. It is my intention to have in
place a team which can meet the requirements of the Basic Law in good time before the
change in sovereignty.
127. Localization has been our policy for a great many years now. We have always
preferred the gradual approach. Over the last decade the proportion of overseas officers in
directorate ranks in the Civil Service as a whole has declined from 55% to 35%.
128. The trend towards localization therefore continues. But of course progress is never
completely even. There are always areas which are ahead of the trend and those which are
lagging behind, for whatever good reasons. From time to time we have to take special
measures to deal with particular situations, and there are two such that I want to mention
today.
129. The Legal Department is one of the most important government departments. It is of
course one of those which must be headed by a qualified local person in 1997. Despite our
best efforts to date, localization has been slower than we and many others would like.
Although the special measures we have already taken, such as the so-called "Double
Ladder" and "Development Posts" schemes, are bearing fruit, it is clearly going to take time
for them to work through the system.
130. I have already said that we are aiming to fill all "Principal Official" posts, including
that of Attorney General, with local officers who can meet the requirements of the Basic
Law in good time before 1997. In the Legal Department we also need a pool of qualified
local people at the tier immediately
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 46
below the Attorney General's level to provide for the future. This is not going to happen
unless we take more positive action. Therefore, we will be making special arrangements to
ensure that three of the five Law Officer posts will also be filled by local people by the end
of 1995. To provide a better foundation for the future, we shall also be enlarging the
Development Posts Scheme and extending it to provide opportunities for local officers to be
groomed and to act at the Principal Crown Counsel rank.
131. The Legal Aid Department is in a special category. Over 90% of its clients are Chinese
speaking. Its professional staff have direct contact with the public, dealing with subjects
which are often of a very personal nature. Chinese language skills are an obvious asset. We
therefore aim by 1995 to ensure that the Director and two of the three Deputy Directors in
the department are proficient in the language. We will also work to increase the percentage
of officers in the other directorate ranks of the department who are able to communicate
with their clients in Chinese.
132. I hope what I have said will be seen by Members of this Council and by the
community as evidence of the Government's continuing commitment to localization. The
dominance of local people in the management of programmes and services is in my view
essential. Nevertheless, we must not forget that Hong Kong is an international city in which
overseas officers continue to have an important place, a fact recognized by the Joint
Declaration and the Basic Law. Those who cannot continue to be accommodated must be
treated fairly. We shall need to work with the Chinese Government on these issues as 1997
approaches.
Common conditions of service
133. The existence of two sets of conditions for civil servants, one "local", the other
"overseas" has helped fuel the localization debate. We have narrowed the differences and
indeed removed them entirely at the most senior ranks. We need to do more. The historical
justification for the present system has worn very thin in the last decade of the 20th century.
134. We propose that those taking up employment with the Hong Kong Government should
now do so on common terms and conditions of service. Consultation with government
departments and staff will begin soon. We will also need to discuss our proposals with the
Chinese Government.
Training for transition
135. A smooth transfer of sovereignty in 1997 involves a major effort to prepare the Civil
Service for transition. This requires development of the knowledge, understanding and the
skills required to work effectively with China. Specialized short courses to familiarize civil
servants with China's
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 47
systems and current issues are a standard feature of the Government's training activities. We
started a highly successful sponsored visit programme in 1987, involving exchange visits
between senior Chinese and Hong Kong Government officials. In July of this year, we
began the Chinese Studies Course in Peking for senior staff. By 1997, all our
Administrative Service and directorate level officers should have participated in a formal
training course of some kind related to the transition.
136. The demand for a much deeper knowledge of China and its systems exists at all levels
of the Civil Service. To fill this need, the Civil Service Training Centre will continue to
develop training programmes for all civil servants covering different aspects of China's
political and economic life. We also look forward to building up more contacts between
Chinese and Hong Kong Government officials through work, visits and training courses.
137. Let me emphasize the priority which the Government attaches to preparing the Civil
Service for the transfer of sovereignty. We must do everything necessary to see that the men
and women in our Civil Service have the background and expertise to continue to provide
an effective administration for this territory after 1997, as laid down in the Joint Declaration
and the Basic Law. We will provide every support and encouragement for the Civil Service
to do so. We look forward to co-operating with the Chinese authorities in this process.
THE CHINA RELATIONSHIP
138. Since my arrival in Hong Kong, I have been repeatedly asked about the territory's
future. In particular, I am asked to explain why I should feel confident about Hong Kong's
ability to remain one of the world's most attractive cities to live in after 1997 when we seem
to have had so many disagreements with Peking over important issues which affect the
future.
139. I want to emphasize again that I am confident about Hong Kong's future as a good
place in which to raise a family or make a career. Provided that the "one country, two
systems" concept is fully implemented and respected, Hong Kong's special way of life is
bound to flourish far into the next century.
A long standing partnership
140. Let me explain why I believe that our community can take such a robust view of its
future. First, I am greatly encouraged by the breadth and depth of our relationship with
China — a relationship which, in most areas, is constructive and beneficial to both sides.
The level of business ties is the most obvious example of the successful relationships which
we enjoy.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 48
- Hong Kong's entrepreneurs led the world's business into China in the 1980s. They
have the biggest stake in China's modernization, accounting for about two thirds
of external direct investment in the country. They have helped to make
Guangdong probably the fastest growing region in the world.
- China's leading state enterprises have long played a major role in banking,
transport, distribution and other key sectors of the Hong Kong economy. Their
more recent investments in aviation, telecommunications and construction have
given them an additional stake in Hong Kong's prosperity.
- The international business community has responded enthusiastically to the way
Hong Kong institutions such as our Stock Exchange are forging new areas of
partnership with their China counterparts. Some 672 international corporations
have established their regional headquarters here in the past four years.
Government contacts
141. The Government, too, is heavily involved. The figures speak for themselves. In the
first half of this year, six policy branches and 38 departments made a total of 166 official
visits to their Chinese counterparts. And the flow is in both directions. Over the same
period, 130 groups involving almost 1 000 Chinese officials came to Hong Kong.
142. Policy branches and departments have developed an extensive network of direct
contacts with their Chinese counterparts at the working level. Contact with Chinese
government agencies and their staff is an increasingly regular feature of their normal
working day. Let me mention just a few examples.
- Banking supervision: co-operation between the People's Bank and our Monetary
Authority covers both supervision of institutions and exchange of information.
- Infrastructural planning: co-operation started with shared environmental concerns.
But the range of contacts has expanded to cover wider planning issues.
- Cross-border crime: Chinese Liaision Officers are posted to Hong Kong to work
with our Police Force.
- Staff exchanges: Hong Kong offers training opportunities in a range of skills,
from regulation of financial markets to airport management.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 49
143. I am particularly encouraged that, in these meetings, we have wholly constructive
discussions about common interests within the framework of the Joint Declaration. Hong
Kong can do business with China, now and in the future, without losing its special identity
and way of life.
The flow of people
144. The relationship goes beyond the worlds of business and government. It involves an
enormous tide of people in both directions, creating increased co-operation and
understanding on both sides. The projections for this year show how fast the flow is
growing.
- Cross-border flows will reach a new peak, with nearly four cross-border trips for
every man, woman and child in the territory.
- The number of mainland visitors to Hong Kong will reach 1 million.
- The number of passengers to and from China passing through Kai Tak will be
over 2.5 million, a 60% increase over five years, and representing one in seven of
all passengers.
- About half of our external telecommunications traffic will be with China.
The China advantage
145. This close relationship with China is the product of culture, location and history. We
have benefited enormously over the last decade from the increasing China dimension to
Hong Kong's life. This is destined to expand still further. It is vital that we continue to take
the fullest advantage of the opportunities which China's modernization offers us.
146. In the months ahead, we intend to discuss with the Chinese authorities practical
measures to develop co-operation in the main areas of importance to our working
relationship:
- the exchange of information on major infrastructural projects in Hong Kong and
Guangdong;
- the creation, with the advice and support of the Industry and Technology
Development Council, of an applied research centre, drawing together the
expertise of our tertiary institutions and of the Chinese Academy of Sciences;
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 50
- measures to encourage the cross-border flow of a wider range of
telecommunications services; and
- our proposal, strongly supported by the Hong Kong haulage industry, for the
opening of a 24-hour border crossing at Lok Ma Chau.
THE JLG AGENDA
147. I now turn to a matter which I know is of great concern to people in Hong Kong
because it vitally affects their future and the nature of the society in which they will live:
this is the work of the Joint Liaison Group (JLG). Britain and China have agreed in the
Joint Declaration that they will intensify their co-operation in the Joint Liaison Group in the
second half of the transition period. We are now well into the second half. Yet the expected
acceleration of the work of the JLG has failed to materialize. Instead, it seems that its work
has almost come to a halt.
148. It is, therefore, essential that we inject a new sense of urgency into the JLG. Hong
Kong has a right to expect that the JLG performs and completes the task set for it in the
Joint Declaration. There is no specific British interest to be served by resolving the
outstanding issues on the JLG agenda, other than our aim of governing Hong Kong as well
and as competently as possible. But settling these matters will be of direct benefit to the
Hong Kong SAR and China. Failing to do so will create unnecessary uncertainty and
confusion about the transition and will call into doubt the continuation of Hong Kong's vital
legal and commercial relations with the outside world.
149. The issues involved are not generally political. They are, almost always, technical or
practical matters which have a direct bearing on the lives of people in all walks of life in the
territory. Let me give a few examples of what I mean.
- The Hong Kong Government has put forward proposals to preserve existing
arrangements for visa-free travel overseas for Hong Kong people after 1997. Ease
of travel overseas is a convenience which Hong Kong people rightly enjoy; it also
facilitates trade and tourism and thus makes an important contribution to Hong
Kong's prosperity. If we cannot reach agreement on this in the JLG, it would be
difficult to see how these arrangements could survive 1997.
- We are in the process of negotiating a network of air services agreements between
Hong Kong and key aviation partners which will extend beyond 1997. A number
of initialled agreements are now under consideration in the JLG. If we are unable
to complete this programme, the effectiveness of Hong Kong's existing civil
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 51
aviation relationships will be called into doubt and Hong Kong's reputation as a
major centre of international civil aviation will suffer.
- We are negotiating agreements with a number of countries to enable Hong Kong
to return fugitive criminals to their country of origin and to get back criminals
who flee from Hong Kong. These agreements play an important role in the fight
against international crime. If these agreements are to remain valid after 1997
they must be cleared through the JLG. If they are not all in place by 1997, our
ability to fight international crime will be impaired and Hong Kong risks
becoming a haven for criminals.
- The JLG is currently discussing who will be entitled to enjoy the right of abode in
the territory after 1997. This is an issue of vital concern to people both of Chinese
and non-Chinese origin in this community. If the JLG were to fail to reach clearcut conclusions on this important issue, some members of our community would
face real uncertainty about their future in the territory.
150. These are just a few illustrative examples. The full list of outstanding JLG matters is a
daunting one. But there is no acceptable reason why the experienced teams on both sides
should not be able to deal quickly and efficiently with these matters. They owe it to the
people of Hong Kong to ensure that their agenda is completed by 1997.
The post-1997 legal and judicial systems
151. We must also look to Hong Kong's legal and judicial systems. Legislation will be
drafted to establish a Court of Final Appeal on the basis agreed by the JLG in 1991. I
appreciate that some Members have expressed reservations in the past over the agreement
reached with the Chinese Government. It will be incumbent on the Administration when
bringing the Bill forward to convince both you and the community that it is a sensible and
honourable agreement, one that is consistent with the relevant provisions of the Joint
Declaration. The ultimate decision will rest with this Council. But nothing, I believe, will
do more to build trust and confidence in our judicial system than the smooth and effective
operation of a Court of Final Appeal well in advance of 1997 — with the firm guarantee of
a life beyond that year.
Localization of laws
152. It is urgent that we prepare for the change of sovereignty in 1997 by pushing ahead
with adapting and localizing our laws to bring them into line with the provisions of the
Basic Law. A special unit has been established in the Legal
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 52
Department to advance this important work. In the years ahead, we intend to allocate
additional funds to the unit to ensure that work remains on schedule.
153. We will need to introduce into this Council a large number of Bills in the next three
years to localize our legislation. We have included 10 in the 1993-94 legislative programme.
There is a great deal to be done, and not much time to do it, if we are to ensure that we have
a complete set of laws capable of continuing beyond 1997. If progress in the JLG does not
speed up significantly, there is a high risk that the work will not be finished before 1997,
and we will then face a legal vacuum. It would be irresponsible of us to let that happen, and
I am determined that we should do everything possible to keep to our target for this
extremely important exercise.
Judicial efficiency
154. It will also be vitally important during the transition to improve the efficiency of our
courts. With this end in view, this Council has approved the appointment of a Judiciary
Administrator to take responsibility for promoting a service-orientated culture within the
judicial system. We expect to have the new Administrator in place by the end of this year.
At each level of the court system, judicial leaders will be appointed, again tasked with
promoting efficiency. In addition, the Chief Justice will chair a high level working party
comprising members of the Judiciary, the legal profession and the public through which a
thorough review of existing administrative systems will be conducted to determine how and
where improvements can be made.
Personal freedoms
155. Getting the mechanisms, the systems, the agreements in place cannot be our only goal.
No less important is the task of developing confidence and commitment about the longterm prospects of Hong Kong among the community at large and among Hong Kong's
partners around the world. In the last resort, confidence in the future depends on individuals
being convinced that 1997 will not mean an undermining of the personal liberties which
they enjoy and which are a vital ingredient in our separate system, our special way of life.
156. Both the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law seek to provide the community with
assurances on this score. But there is more that could be done. The Joint Declaration lays
down that the provisions of the two International Covenants, on Civil and Political Rights
and on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights as applied to Hong Kong will remain in force
after 1997. But it would be a very welcome step if the Chinese Government were to become
a signatory to these two covenants.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 53
CONSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
157. One year ago, I announced in this Council a number of proposals for constitutional
development. These fell into two groups. The first group of proposals was designed to
strengthen the effectiveness of our executive-led Government and its accountability to this
Legislative Council. I proposed that to enable the Executive and Legislative Councils each
to play their proper roles, the non-official membership of the two bodies should, for the
time being, be separate. This has now been achieved. I proposed a new Executive Council
without representatives of political parties, and we now have that too. I proposed last year
that the Governor should be replaced as President of the Legislative Council by an elected
President. You, Mr President, then took office and I am now answerable to this Council as
head of the executive. Over the last year, I have attended 10 question and answer sessions
of this Council.
158. I also proposed that the Government should work with Members of this Council to
develop new arrangements for your own administration and support facilities. Much work
has been done on that, and I am glad that a new Legislative Council office will soon be
established. Finally, in this first set of proposals, I suggested a Government-LegCo
Committee, where the Administration could discuss with Members of this Council the
handling of the Administration's legislative and financial programmes. I remain convinced
that some form of mechanism is needed for the purpose I have identified, and I am ready to
consider any recommendations that Members may have.
159. Those then were the first set of proposals that I put forward last year. Generally there
has been good progress on them and I believe that both the executive and the legislature
have benefited.
160. My second set of proposals last year concerned the arrangements for the 1994
elections to the District Boards and the 1995 elections to the Municipal Councils and the
Legislative Council. The purpose was to ensure that those elections were open, fair and
acceptable to our community and, at the same time, within the framework of the Basic Law,
so that continuity through 1997 could be achieved.
161. There were six proposals:
- first, the reduction of the voting age from 21 to 18, as in China, Britain and
elsewhere;
- second, a single vote, single seat voting system for geographical constituencies;
- third, replacement of corporate voting by individual voting in all the present
functional constituencies, and arrangements for the nine new functional
constituencies to enfranchise all the remaining eligible voters in our working
population;
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 54
- fourth, developing the role of District Boards and abolishing appointed
membership on these and on the Municipal Councils;
- fifth, the establishment of a Boundary and Election Commission; and
- sixth, that the Election Committee which will be needed for 1995 should comprise
members who have themselves been elected. I suggested that the simplest way to
achieve this would be to draw all or most of its members from the directly elected
District Boards.
162. Of these six proposals, only the fifth — the establishment of a Boundary and Election
Commission — has so far been fully implemented. The first part of my fourth proposal —
developing the role of District Boards — has been implemented. But all the rest remain, so
far, unimplemented and are the subject of discussions with the Chinese Government.
163. I explained last year why it was necessary to discuss these proposals with China. It is
clear that our community wants fair, open elections. It is also clear that the community
wants continuity after 1997. People naturally want to be confident that the members they
elect in 1995 may expect to serve a full four-year term in this Council. That is why I said
last year that my proposals would require serious discussion with Peking; and why I made it
plain that they were proposals, not final decisions. From the outset, we were prepared for a
serious negotiation.
164. In the event it took many months to get talks under way. There have now been 12
rounds, the British team being very ably led by the Ambassador in Peking, Sir Robin
McLAREN, and including members of my Administration. In addition, the Foreign
Secretary and the Chinese Foreign Minister have discussed these matters twice in the last
three months. It is a matter of regret that I am not yet able to report agreement on any of the
matters covered by my proposals.
165. The negotiators have agreed that the content of their talks shall be confidential, and I
shall not breach that understanding. But Members of this Council have a right to know
about the British approach to the talks and the status of my proposals, particularly in the
light of press leaks about new proposals tabled by the British side. I can confirm that the
British side did table revised proposals in July and August this year. These differ, in respect
of the arrangements for functional constituencies and the Election Committee, from the
proposals I offered in this Council last year: in all other respects the proposals are the same.
They are proposals that we would be prepared to recommend to this Council if they formed
part of a satisfactory overall agreement which must, of course, include acceptable
arrangements for the "through train".
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 55
166. Because of the confidentiality undertaking I do not want to be specific about the nature
of the revisions. In general terms, however, we have made two major moves in an attempt
to meet Chinese concerns. First, we have devised a new proposal for the nine new
functional constituencies, based on organizations as the Chinese have argued, and with a
total eligible electorate of about a third of that in my original proposal. We continue to
insist that electors should vote individually, not corporately. Secondly, we have tried to
meet China's preference for a four-sector Election Committee of the kind set out in the
Basic Law for the post-1997 Election Committee. We continue to argue that all members of
the Election Committee should themselves be elected.
167. I repeat, these are major moves. They were not made lightly and they are not mere
negotiating ploys. They are evidence of our sincerity, our flexibility, and our determination
to make a success of these talks. But our room for manoeuvre is limited if we are to remain,
as we must, true to the principle that election arrangements in Hong Kong should be fair,
open and acceptable to the community. That is what the debate is about. It is not about the
pace of democratic development; the pace is set out in the Basic Law and will not change
unless the Basic Law itself is changed. It is about ensuring that democratic development is
fair and open. If we allow a system to develop in which elections may be compromised, we
invite corruption; we endanger the rule of law, on which our success depends; and we risk
losing many of the freedoms that protect our way of life and which both the Joint
Declaration and the Basic Law seek to guarantee.
168. We shall stick to our principles. We shall also continue to seek from the Chinese
Government an agreement on objective criteria for the "through train", so that those who
may want to run for election to this Council as well as those who vote for them in 1995,
know before they do so what the rules of the game will be.
169. We believe strongly that it should be possible to reach an agreement with the Chinese
Government which is fully compatible with the Joint Declaration, any other agreements and
the Basic Law, and which satisfies both our principles and Chinese concerns. But we now
have only weeks rather than months to conclude these talks. There will then be a great deal
of work to do to ensure that orderly elections can be held on time.
- We must take the views of this Council, reflecting the wider debate in the
community.
- We may then need to set the law draftsmen to work on developing what is already
complex draft legislation.
- We must leave time for full consideration of draft legislation by this Council.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 56
- And we must complete the process by July 1994 at the latest if we are to have
time to complete all the necessary follow-up action for the elections.
170. Some have suggested that we should separate the 1994 District Board elections from
the 1995 Municipal Council and Legislative Council elections. This would not work. The
proposals affecting both sets of elections are inter-related. They need to be considered as a
package in the talks with China and then in this Council. The conclusion is clear. We have
little time left in which to take the first step of securing agreement, if we can, with the
Chinese side.
CONCLUSION
171. One 20th century commentator, a historian, when asked what he thought was the
significance of the French Revolution in 1789, replied, "It's too soon to tell". How then, so
hard up against the events of the last year, can we tell their significance?
172. Even so close to the canvas, we can pick out the main features of the picture. It has
been a year of success in every area but one. Our economy has thrived. Our social
programmes have expanded. Our quality of life has improved. All those statistics of success
tell a tale of promise achieved in the pages of the progress report that we are publishing
today with my policy address.
173. Where have our efforts failed to bear fruit? In an area where no one wants failure: in
the attempt to create a closer understanding with China, to replace baleful suspicion with
confident trust.
174. Why have we failed so far? Not for want of trying. Not for lack of the will to make our
relationship work better. As China's market opens up and blooms, economic convergence
becomes a happy fact of life. So why not convergence elsewhere?
175. Alas, we have still not succeeded in convincing Chinese officials that Hong Kong's
extraordinarily modest aspirations for political development are legitimate, that they
deserve to be met, that they are part of the natural evolution of an increasingly mature and
sophisticated society, and that they are, in a sense, a condition of our continuing success as
a great international trading community. These aspirations pose no threat to China now, nor
in the future. Indeed, the concept of "one country, two systems" should accommodate them
comfortably.
176. The argument, as I have said, is not about whether we should accelerate the pace of
democracy in Hong Kong, though many of you think — perhaps understandably — that it
should be. The argument turns on whether the agreed
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 57
steps towards democracy will give the people of Hong Kong a real opportunity to choose,
and on whether those steps are credible or not.
177. In order to try to win agreement, we have — as you will have observed — been
prepared to make substantial moves in our talks with China to take account of Chinese
concerns. I will leave it to the Chinese side to say how far they have been prepared to move.
178. We will go on working as hard as we can for an agreement. We believe it should be
possible to reach an accord that meets the concerns of both sides. But we are not prepared
to give away our principles in order to sign a piece of paper. What would that be worth?
179. We believe that the people of Hong Kong deserve a credible legislature, fairly and
openly elected. Anything less than that would surely undermine the rule of law, and that
rule of law is essential to the maintenance of Hong Kong's prosperity and freedom. The
argument fuses together what is right — what is moral, if you like — with what is
expedient.
180. In this Chinese city, we know that a free society governed under the law works, and we
know that freedom must be firmly rooted, as it is — for example — in the Joint Declaration.
Otherwise Hong Kong will spend its future forever looking over its shoulder. Why keep a
bird on a string unless you want to tug it back from time to time?
181. We passionately want Hong Kong to have the best possible relationship with China
before 1997 so that it can prosper and grow in strength as China prospers and strengthens in
the years ahead. But at the end of a century in which again and again we have seen hope
and promise so often turn to ashes when men and women failed to stand up for what was
right and for what they believed in, there is a point beyond which I do not believe that we
could justifiably go, even in pursuit of an agreement to which we genuinely aspire.
182. Is what Hong Kong stands for a throw back to the past or a wave of the future? Will
the world be happier and more prosperous, or less happy and less prosperous as more of it
shares our values and copies our success? We know the answers to those questions.
183. "One country, two systems". That is what I wish to see. I must and I will stand up for
our system. That is my responsibility, but, in the final analysis, the Government can only
defend that system, that way of life, with the community's support. And I say this to all of
you. If we are not prepared to stand up for Hong Kong's way of life today, what chance of
doing so tomorrow?
184. I say that we can only be as bold as you. That is not a surrender of leadership. It is a
statement of fact.
HONG KONG LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL — 6 October 1993 58
185. We cannot be bolder than you because liberty stands in the heart. When it shrivels
there, nothing can save it.
186. And there is another reason, too.
187. We do not yet have full democracy here in Hong Kong. But democracy is the road
which the Chinese Government has agreed Hong Kong should follow. The Joint
Declaration lays down that "the legislature of the Hong Kong Special Administrative
Region shall be constituted by elections". It also prescribes that the executive "shall be
accountable to the legislature". There can be no doubt, therefore, that we are destined to be
moving firmly in the direction of democracy.
188. Let me tell you what I believe this democratic goal means for us. It means that your
Government cannot claim to be any stronger, any wiser, any more determined than the
community itself. And in the last resort, it is you — above all, you the community's
legislature, the legislature that as the Joint Declaration says, holds the executive
accountable — it is you who set the limits to the Government's power to protect and
strengthen our system.
189. The democratic ideal (clearly enshrined in the Joint Declaration) means that the
community, through its elected legislature, makes the laws that govern it. You are both the
rulers and the ruled. That is why democracy is both a high privilege and a heavy
responsibility.
190. I say all this because I believe it to be true. And I say it as well because I am growing
to love Hong Kong as you who have created it from rock and scrub love Hong Kong. And I
want, as you want, to see Hong Kong as it confidently enters the next millennium under
Chinese sovereignty, a blazing beacon of good fortune, a dazzling example of what free
men and women — putting adversity and hardship behind them — can together achieve.
That is what we want. And that is what we can achieve. All we require is to keep our
confidence in the values that bind us into a thriving community. With the courage that has
brought success in the past, and the confidence that success has earned, everything is
possible. I believe that. And I believe that you believe it, too.