The Marvels will see the return of Captain Marvel (Brie Larson), and as such, it has to fix her most annoying trend in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. The MCU continues its expansion now with the Multiverse Saga, which in addition to introducing new heroes and villains in both movies and TV shows, it’s also continuing the stories of already established characters – and, in some cases, it’s bringing together new and old characters to cover even more in terms of narrative, settings, and events in the MCU, as is the case for The Marvels, the sequel to Captain Marvel.

The Marvels won’t just see the proper return of Carol Danvers to the MCU, as she will be joined by two new female characters: Monica Rambeau (Teyonah Parris) and Kamala Khan a.k.a. Ms. Marvel (Iman Vellani). The Marvels will follow the events of Ms. Marvel, where Kamala was last seen unintentionally swapping places with her idol, Carol Danvers, when her bangle went off. Kamala, Carol, and Monica will have to team up to find out why they are switching places with each other every time they use their powers, but Marvel has other things to solve and fix in The Marvels, mainly Carol’s most annoying trend, which has also stopped her from connecting with other characters and the audience, as well.

Captain Marvel Keeps Leaving The Avengers For No Reason
Captain marvel and Avengers endgame
Like other MCU characters in their first movie, Captain Marvel told the origin story of Carol Danvers and her transformation into the title hero, and for that, it took the audience back to the 1990s. After defeating Yon-Rogg (Jude Law) and the Kree, Captain Marvel left Earth to help Talos (Ben Mendelsohn) and the Skrulls find a new home, but not without leaving Fury a modified pager so he could contact her in case of emergency. Fury started working on the Avengers Initiative after this and didn’t see a reason to call Captain Marvel until Thanos' snap made half of life in the universe disappear, including him. Captain Marvel returned in Avengers: Endgame, where she rescued Tony Stark and Nebula and joined the surviving Avengers to confront Thanos, but after that, her appearances have made way for an annoying trend.


Following Thanos’ death, Captain Marvel joined the Avengers but continued helping other planets, and only appeared in a holo-conference with Natasha Romanoff, Rhodey, and Okoye, and after telling them that other planets were struggling as well after Thanos’ snap, she left. Captain Marvel returned during the Battle of Earth, but she left sometime after Tony Stark’s funeral. Captain Marvel was seen again in the post-credits scene of Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings once more in a holo-conference, now with Wong, Shang-Chi, Katy Chen, and Bruce Banner. Unsurprisingly, Captain Marvel left abruptly one more time, telling them they could get her number from Bruce, who admitted he didn’t have his number and said that she “does that all the time”. The excuse that’s always given is that Captain Marvel is busy helping other planets, but the MCU refuses to explain what exactly she has been doing that she’s always leaving so abruptly and seems to have no time for her fellow team members, and while it tried to turn this into a running-gag, it has only hurt the character.

Captain Marvel Could Be The MCU’s Most Powerful & Interesting Character
Captain Marvel destroys the Kree fleet
Captain Marvel’s powers and abilities could make her the MCU’s most powerful and interesting character as she can cover more than other superheroes can, but Marvel has wasted her potential so far. Due to her exposure to the Tesseract, Captain Marvel was granted superhuman strength, durability, speed, agility, stamina, and reflexes, along with regenerative healing factor, longevity, and cosmic energy manipulation, the latter granting her other abilities as well. Captain Marvel can use cosmic energy as energy blasts, can use it to fly and glide, and can accumulate it in her hands to burn, melt, and traverse solid metals. Because of this, Captain Marvel can help other planets in ways no one else can, but it’s unknown what she has done since she left Earth.

Captain Marvel’s absence and her abrupt departures and more have also alienated her from her fellow Avengers, and even though it’s implied that she continues to be part of the team, it’s hard to believe from the audience’s point of view that she has a bond with her fellow team members. Luckily, Captain Marvel now has direct links to two other heroes, which can give her a reason to finally stay on Earth and be a consistent part of the MCU, especially as a new crossover event is fast approaching.

The Marvels Can Finally Give Carol Danvers A Reason To Stay On Earth
The Marvels poster with Ms. Marvel, Captain Marvel, and Photon
Captain Marvel has links to her The Marvels co-stars Monica Rambeau and Kamala Khan, though in different ways: Carol met Monica when she was little, as she was close friends with her mother, Maria Rambeau, and she might have recruited her at the end of WandaVision, while Kamala is a big fan of Captain Marvel, but her bangle might have some connection to Carol, as they switched places at the end of Ms. Marvel. Monica and Kamala’s rise as superheroes as well as whatever has been causing them to swap places could give Captain Marvel enough reasons to stay on Earth and finally work with her fellow Avengers in a more direct and personal way, ending the annoying trend of her always leaving without much explanation.

