Report: Ex-Broncos RB Phillip Lindsay Signs With XFL Team
The former Denver Broncos star running back is taking his talents to the XFL.
Although he hasn't suited up for the Denver Broncos since 2020, he remains a fan favorite for multiple reasons, not the least of which is his Colorado roots. Born and raised in Denver, Lindsay went on to play his college ball at the University of Colorado in Boulder, and joined the Broncos as a college free agent in 2018. 

Things haven't gone swimmingly for 'The Colorado Kid' since he departed Denver. With the news on Saturday that Lindsay has signed with a new pro team outside of the NFL, the hope is that he can do enough to garner a contract in time for the 2023 season. 


"Veteran RB Phillip Lindsay is signing with the XFL’s Seattle Sea Dragons, per source. A two-time 1,000-yard rusher, Lindsay should have ample opportunities in June Jones’ offense to showcase himself for an NFL return and is still only 28," Tom Pelissero tweeted on Saturday. 

Lindsay defied the odds by not only catching on with an NFL team as an undrafted rookie, but by going on to rush for 1,000-plus yards and earning a Pro Bowl nod. It was unprecedented production from a player who didn't hear his name called on draft day. 

Lindsay continued to make history by producing 1,000-yard rushing seasons in back-to-back years to open his NFL career. Then, the Broncos opted to sign Melvin Gordon in 2020. 

With the front office throwing down the gauntlet, Lindsay worked to maintain a starting role in the offense but still had to split carries with Gordon. Then, the injury bug jumped up and bit Lindsay and he spent much of the 2020 season injured. 

That next offseason, the Broncos tagged him as a restricted free agent, but it was at the lowest level. Being dissatisfied with the lowball tag, Lindsay requested that Denver rescind its RFA tender and allow him to negotiate freely with NFL teams. 

That's what GM George Paton did in his first offseason in Denver and Lindsay went on to sign with the Houston Texans. As the No. 3 guy on Houston's running back depth chart, Lindsay struggled to outshine Mark Ingram and David Johnson, ultimately appearing in just 10 games before the Texans waived him. 

Since then, Lindsay has bounced around the NFL. At just 28 years old, he has carried the ball 611 times for 2,759 yards (4.5 avg) and 18 touchdowns. He's yet to fumble in the NFL. 

