This May, the hit comic book series EDGE OF SPIDER-VERSE is back for another wild trip through the Spider-Verse, complete with revolutionary new Spider-Heroes and further adventures for the series’ biggest breakout stars, all brought to you from an all-star lineup of talent! 

Last year’s EDGE OF SPIDER-VERSE comic book series introduced Marvel fans to some of Marvel’s hottest new web-slinging heroes including Spider-Rex, Spinstress, and Web-Weaver, caught readers up with old favorites, and laid the groundwork for Dan Slott and Mark Bagley’s incredible SPIDER-MAN ongoing series! This new volume will be even more impactful, following up on threads from recent Spidey sagas and directly tying into the most talked about current and future storylines!  

Here are the stories fans can look forward to in June’s EDGE OF SPIDER-VERSE #3: 

After her hit debut last year in Saladin Ahmed and artist Christopher Allen’s MILES MORALES: SPIDER-MAN, Miles’ sister Billie Morales’s alter ego is still needed in the revolutionary future timeline known as the Empire of the Spider! See the return of SPIDER SMASHER in an all-new story by writer David Betancourt and artist Julian Shaw! 
Fans are on the edge of their seats awaiting the introduction of Dan Slott and Mark Bagley’s top secret new Spider-hero in next month’s SPIDER-MAN #7! After that, don’t miss this issue where Slott teams up with artist Humberto Ramos to reveal his stunning backstory!
Edge of Spider-Verse #3 cover by Patrick Brown
EDGE OF SPIDER-VERSE #3 (OF 4)
Written by DAN SLOTT & DAVID BETANCOURT
Art by HUMBERTO RAMOS & JULIAN SHAW
Cover by PATRICK BROWN
On Sale 6/21

Check out the cover and stay tuned for more EDGE OF SPIDER-VERSE announcements!

You can grab these comics and more digitally or at your favorite local comic book shop. Be sure to ask your local shop about their current business policies to observe social distancing or other services they may offer, including holding or creating pull lists, curbside pick-ups, special deliveries, and other options to accommodate. Find and support your local comic book shop at ComicShopLocator.com or by visiting Marvel.com/LoveComicShops.

For digital comics, all purchases in the Marvel Comics app can be read on iPhone®, iPad® and select Android™ devices! Our smart-paneling feature provides an intuitive reader experience, ideal for all types of mobile device and tablet users! Download the app on iOS and Android now!

