

    "Most wanted" fugitive couple arrested in Mexico; 5 children missing from U.S. rescued - CBS News













Donald Trump Indictment




Finland Joins NATO




Oil Production Cuts




Biden and Reelection




CBS News Live




Managing Your Money




Essentials Shopping




Newsletters


















News




US




World




Politics




Entertainment




HealthWatch




MoneyWatch




CBS Village




Technology




Science




Crime




Sports




Essentials








Live Updates: Trump pleads not guilty to 34 counts in Manhattan courtroom




Watch Live: Manhattan DA Alvin Bragg speaks after Trump arraignment




Read the full Trump indictment charging him with 34 felony counts




Trump to address supporters in Florida after pleading not guilty in New York




Marjorie Taylor Greene joins NYC protest at Trump arraignment




Wall Street Journal reporter held in Russia meets with lawyers




As Finland joins NATO, here's what it means and why it matters




Many workers willing to take a pay cut to work remotely




Passenger dies after falling from cruise ship balcony onto lower deck











Shows




Live




Local




More




Latest




Video




Photos




Podcasts




In Depth




Local




Global Thought Leaders




Innovators & Disruptors





Log In




Newsletters




Mobile




RSS




CBS Store




Paramount+




Join Our Talent Community




Davos 2023





Search




Search



Login










Watch CBS News












          Crime
          

"Most wanted" fugitive couple arrested in Mexico; 5 children missing from U.S. rescued




            By Emily Mae Czachor
          

April 3, 2023 / 9:25 AM
          / CBS News
        

















Five children missing from Washington state were found and rescued as authorities took their parents into custody in Mexico, U.S. officials said on Friday. The parents, identified as Edgar Salvador Casian-Garcia, 34, and his girlfriend, Araceli Medina, 38, became the first fugitive couple to appear on the U.S. Marshals Service's 15 Most Wanted list in February, after almost two years on the run. Casian-Garcia and Medina, who were wanted in connection with various child abuse offenses, including suspected sex trafficking, and the murder of a child in Washington state, set off an international manhunt and in 2021 allegedly fled to Mexico, according to the U.S. Marshals Service. 
Edgar Salvador Casian-Garcia, right, and his girlfriend, Araceli Medina.

            
            National Center for Missing and Exploited Children

                      
The couple now faces charges for the murder of a child as well as multiple counts of child sexual abuse, the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children announced after their arrest. The pair will remain in custody of Mexican authorities while they await extradition back to Washington, according to the agency. The five children who were found and rescued have been returned to the U.S. and placed in protective custody. 






"We are so thankful that all five missing children have been rescued safely," said John Bischoff, who oversees the Missing Children Division at NCMEC, in a statement included with the agency's announcement. "The crimes that Araceli Medina and Edgar Casian-Garcia are charged with are heinous and we commend the unwavering dedication of law enforcement," Bischoff's statement continued. "This successful rescue is a testament to the critical importance of collaboration and community involvement in safeguarding our most vulnerable population."


Authorities began to investigate Casian-Garcia and Medina after they discovered two abandoned girls, later identified as Casian-Garcia's biological daughters, then 8 and 3 years old, at a gas station in Tijuana in late 2020. The children allegedly showed signs of "severe physical and sexual abuse," the Marshals Service said, and they were taken into protective custody in Mexico as an investigation eventually got underway in Washington. Police say that Casian-Garcia and Medina took four of his biological children and an infant they share together with them when they fled to Mexico in 2021. At the time, their 7-year-old son Edgar Jr., was missing, according to NCMEC. Although the couple initially told investigators, prior to fleeing the country, that the child was staying with relatives in California, authorities earlier this year found human remains near their home in Washington that they later identified as belonging to Edgar, Jr.The eastern Washington branch of the U.S. Marshals previously offered a $25,000 per person reward to anyone who could offer information leading to the arrests of Casian-Garcia and Medina. They face charges for aggravated murder in the first degree, four counts of rape of a child in the first degree and three counts of assault of a child in the first degree, according to the agency.


Trending News






Read the full Trump indictment charging him with 34 felony counts







4 people found dead near the beach in Cancun's hotel area







Roy McGrath, Maryland governor's ex-chief of staff, dead after manhunt







Colorado woman's murder trial begins 3 years after stepson found dead in Florida







Nurse practitioner dubbed "Rock Doc" convicted of illegally prescribing opioids




In:
          Child Trafficking
Mexico
most wanted
Washington


First published on April 3, 2023 / 9:25 AM


© 2023 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.


Thanks for reading CBS NEWS. 
Create your free account or log in  for more features.




 Continue 



                Please enter email address to continue
            

                Please enter valid email address to continue
            


















Copyright ©2023 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Terms of Use
About
Advertise
Closed Captioning
CBS News Live on Paramount+
CBS News Store
Site Map
Contact Us
Help


facebook




twitter




instagram




youtube



View CBS News In




CBS News App

Open





Chrome




Safari

Continue



Be the first to know
Get browser notifications for breaking news, live events, and exclusive reporting.
Not Now
Turn On


