







































Olympic and Paralympic Week starts in France with inclusion as main theme


















          Skip to main content
        









Back to paralympic.org








 








Paris 2024




                                Paralympic Games
              


                            28 August - 8 September
            







EnglishEspañol











Search















          
          Facebook
        





          
          Instagram
        





          
          Twitter
        





          
          Youtube
        





          
          TikTok
        














Toggle Navigation







EnglishEspañol



















NEWS 


SCHEDULE 


QUALIFICATION REGULATIONS 


Information for media 




















Olympic and Paralympic Week starts in France with inclusion as main theme

Olympic and Paralympic Week aims to introduce more people to sports and shift young people's perceptions of disability
03 Apr 2023




























Imagen
 

One million students across France are expected to participate in the activities planned around Olympic and Paralympic Week in April 2023.
 ⒸParis 2024
By Paris 2024 and IPC


As the milestone of 500 days until the Paris 2024 Paralympic Games approaches, Olympic and Paralympic Week (OPW/SOP) has started in France around the theme of inclusion.
This year's event is an opportunity to fight against disability discrimination and promote awareness of the Paralympic Games, Para athletes, and various Para sports among young people. Moreover, the OPW will emphasise the importance of physical activity in the daily lives of students across all levels of the French education system.
In total, more than 7,000 schools and institutions will be involved with one million students participating.
“With 500 days to go before the first Summer Paralympic Games in France, we have chosen to dedicate this year's OPW to a theme that is important to us: inclusion," said Tony Estanguet, President of Paris 2024 Organising Committee. "With 21.8% of discrimination related to disability, it is crucial to fight against stereotypes and misconceptions from an early age.”  
Bringing sport and schools together
Since 2017, Olympic and Paralympic Week has been implemented across all levels of the French education system, as well as in social and medico-social institutions (ESMS) that choose to participate.
This annual event provides an opportunity for the education community to explore the potential of sports in support of teaching. Its primary goal is to raise students' awareness of the Olympic and Paralympic values while promoting the discovery of Olympic and Paralympic disciplines. Additionally, the OPW aims to shift young people's perceptions of disability by encouraging them to view it from a new perspective.
La Semaine Olympique et Paralympique est officiellement lancée 🏁Dans les écoles, collèges, lycées et universités, les élèves vont bouger, danser et se dépenser… ENSEMBLE !Well come on 😉#SOP2023 pic.twitter.com/mfTvGIJmSa— Paris 2024 (@Paris2024) April 3, 2023
 










Click here and change your settings to allow	
                marketing cookies to view this content
                          






The initiative was launched in partnership with Paris 2024 and the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports. 
“This week will illustrate the reality of the inclusive school, through more than 3,000 projects led by teaching teams across France, in collaboration with the Paris 2024 Organising Committee and our athletes," said Pap Ndiaye, Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports.
"With an adapted education system, we guarantee the 430,000 students with disabilities in schools the ability to learn and be assessed at the baccalaureate like all other students in France. During physical education classes in secondary school, we offer all students the opportunity to discover Para sports, now available in official programmes, with the aim to change their perspective on disability.”
World Health Day
World Health Day will also take place during Olympic and Paralympic Week. Celebrated on 7 April every year, it will be an opportunity to take action towards addressing global public health challenges.
The "30 Minutes of Daily Physical Activity" initiative is a significant step in this direction, promoting physical activity from an early age. The positive effects of this programme have already been observed by participating teachers, including an improved classroom environment through enhanced concentration among students.
Maintenant, c'est à vous de jouer !Apprenez la chorégraphie de Fauve Hautot pour la #SOP2023 grâce à notre Tuto !À vous de danser et de bouger !On attend vos vidéos 📽 pic.twitter.com/kk7CKluwvp— Paris 2024 (@Paris2024) April 3, 2023
 










Click here and change your settings to allow	
                marketing cookies to view this content
                          






Numerous events across France and abroad 
A multitude of events will take place across France throughout this week. In the Paris region, an opening ceremony for the launch day of the 2023 OPW will be held at the Zénith de la Villette, featuring the "Dance of the OPW" performed by 1,300 students in the presence of Pap Ndiaye, Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports; Amélie Oudéa-Castera, Minister of Sport, Olympic and Paralympic Games; Geneviève Darrieussecq, Minister Responsible for Persons with Disabilities; Tony Estanguet, President of Paris 2024; Brigitte Henriquès, President of the CNOSF; and Marie-Amélie Le Fur, President of the CPSF.
Activities centred around the theme of inclusion will also be offered in Nice, Marseille, and Besançon.
Beyond France, establishments associated with the Terre de Jeux 2024 embassies will also participate in the celebration. Over 80 French schools and high schools located worldwide will be involved in the OPW by hosting inclusive sports activities and welcoming athletes, as well as through other activities. 





























Related Topics


Paris 2024


France


Europe




Related Stories




Imagen
 


				Paris 2024
			


Paris 2024 opens applications for volunteer programme







Imagen
 


				Paris 2024
			


Paris 2024 announces Paralympic Games event calendar







Imagen
 


				Paris 2024
			


Paris 2024 reveals official pictograms, Look of the Games  







Imagen
 


				Paris 2024
			


Thousands gather for Paralympic Day in centre of Paris



















Worldwide Paralympic Partners






 









 









 









 









 









 









 









 









 









 









 









 









 









 









 
























Imagen
 








Official Website of the Paralympic Movement







Secondary Slogan
International Paralympic Committee






Adenauerallee 212-214, 53113 Bonn, Germany









+49-228-2097-200





+49-228-2097-209






info@paralympic.org














About the IPC


Media


FAQ


Imprint


Privacy Policy & Terms and Conditions


Cookie Declaration


Careers






































Enable JavaScript to ensure website accessibility




