






















































Commander Liwayway and Other Filipino Women Who Fought During World War II - Atlas Obscura
















































Want to see fewer ads? Become a Member.





















 






 


























Trips
 






Upcoming Trips


All Trips
Trips Blog








Get the Atlas Obscura book
Shop Now »







Upcoming Trips


View All Trips »







Monuments of History: Journey Through Bulgaria

 




The Silk Road of Central Asia

 




Artisans & Exiles: Exploring the Hidden Traditions of Japan’s Sado Island

 




Lisbon: Tracing the Roots of an Imperial Cuisine

 








Experiences
 




Upcoming Experiences


View All Experiences »







Members only



Monster of the Month with Colin Dickey: Freak Shows

 



Members only



Antiques and Their Afterlives: Stories from the Collection of Ryan and Regina Cohn

 



Members only



Monster of the Month w/ Colin Dickey: Mokele-Mbembe

 



Members only



Antiques and Their Afterlives: Stories from the Collection of Ryan and Regina Cohn

 



Members only



Monster of the Month w/ Colin Dickey: Satanists

 






Courses
 





Upcoming Courses


View All Courses »








Taste, Place, Identity: Food Anthropology With Leigh Chavez Bush

 




Creating Crossword Puzzles With Brooke Husic & Natan Last

 




Making Scents: Experimental Perfumery With Saskia Wilson-Brown

 




Spoken Stories: Recording Oral History With Meral Agish

 




 Designing Immersive Gatherings With Zach Morris of Third Rail Projects

 







Places
 







Top Destinations




Latest Places




Most Popular Places




Random Place




Lists




Itineraries






Add a Place









Download the App








Latest Places


View All Places »





Tyrone, Pennsylvania
Tyrion’s Cave Nature Preserve Area

40.6016, -78.2174

 

Clarksville, Indiana
Falls of the Ohio State Park

38.2727, -85.7600

 

London, England
The Meeting Place

51.5302, -0.1252

 

Little Compton, Rhode Island
Gray's General Store

41.5543, -71.1270

 




Top Destinations


View All Destinations »






Countries



Australia


Canada


China


France


Germany


India


Italy


Japan





Cities



Amsterdam


Barcelona


Beijing


Berlin


Boston


Budapest


Chicago


London


Los Angeles


Mexico City


Montreal


Moscow


New Orleans


New York City


Paris


Philadelphia


Rome


San Francisco


Seattle


Stockholm


Tokyo


Toronto


Vienna


Washington, D.C.












Foods
 





Latest Places to Eat & Drink


View All Places to Eat »






Vanier Sugar Shack
 


Byen Bakeri
 


Corkscrew and Vineyard Museum
 


Deep Sea Sugar & Salt
 


Bæjarins Beztu Pylsur
 







Stories
 






Recent Stories


All Stories


Puzzles


Video


Podcast






Most Recent Stories


View All Stories »





Podcast: Arrows Across America

 

The Ni-Vanuatu Way To Prepare for a Storm

 

How Chinese Food Won Over the World

 

Podcast: Museum of Clean

 








Newsletters







Sign In


Join













Explore Newsletters











Sign In

Join









 






 



















Places near me
 

Random place
 











Commander Liwayway and Other Filipino Women Who Fought During World War II

The “Huk Amazons” were military commanders, leaders, soldiers, spies, and more.



by Sarah Durn
March 29, 2023




























Commander Liwayway and Other Filipino Women Who Fought During World War II




































Eighteen-year-old Martia Martin, one of the Filipino women known as Huk Amazons, and a comrade in 1945. Martin was part of the guerrilla Huk Rebellion that rose up against the Japanese during World War II; she was credited with seven enemy kills. AP Photo/Pool






In This Story












 Destination Guide

Philippines


15 Articles


55 Places










In Atlas Obscura’s Q&A series She Was There, we talk to female scholars who are writing long-forgotten women back into history.

It was warm, as usual, as Commander Liwayway reapplied her lipstick and loaded her gun. The dense greenery of the jungle unfurled before her as a rooster yelled and gunshots blared. She looked around at the 100 or so men hidden in the underbrush: her men, her unit, Squadron 3-V. In the distance, she heard her lead commander, Eusebio Aquino, ordering the retreat. Some of the men looked to her, seeing if she would follow Aquino’s order and issue her own. She and her men were easily outnumbered. But, as if to answer her men’s questioning looks, she raised her gun, aimed, and fired again and again at the approaching Japanese soldiers.
“My men and I stayed. We did not retreat. By the time the reinforcements came, we were very near to overcoming the Japanese and their allies from the Philippine Constabulary. In the end, the enemy retreated and I was commended for fighting even though the other commanders already gave up,” Liwayway told historian Vina Lanzona of the University of Hawaiʻi-Mānoa (UHM) more than half a century later. Commander (sometimes spelled Kumander) Liwayway wasn’t the only woman to take up arms against the Japanese during the Huk Rebellion, a guerilla campaign that began shortly before World War II and lasted into the 1950s. In her book, Amazons of the Huk Rebellion: Gender, Sex, and Revolution in the Philippines, Lanzona uncovers the stories of female Huk leaders, commanders, soldiers, spies, and other women involved in the movement.
As Lanzona wrote in her book, the Huks were “the first major political and military organization in the country to include and actively recruit women.” Globally, they were far from the only women who joined the war effort during World War II (see the female spies of England’s Special Operations Executive (SOE), the U.S.A.’s all-Black, all-female 6888th Central Postal Directory Battalion, or the Soviet Union’s night witches). But the “Huk Amazons,” as women in the rebellion were known, made up a significant portion of the movement. Atlas Obscura spoke with Lanzona about Liwayway’s love of lipstick, why so many women joined the rebellion, and why their stories matter.
The Huk rebels hid from Japanese soldiers in the dense jungles of the Philippines. This pass, known as Balete or Dalton Pass, saw heavy fighting during World War II and some 17,000 Japanese, American, and Filipino soldiers died here. Ramon FVelasquez/CC BY-SA 3.0
What was the Huk Rebellion?
The Philippines had been under Spanish rule for more than 300 years, 1521 to 1898. And after that, the Americans took over and occupied the Philippines from 1898 until the 1940s. But during the ’30s, there was already the promise of impending independence. There were already a lot of organizations mobilizing peasants and working-class citizens for different political reasons. Then when the war started in 1941, this movement decided that they will form an anti-Japanese guerrilla army, which then became the Huk Movement or the Hukbalahap or Hukbo ng Bayan Laban sa Hapon, which means the anti-Japanese liberation army. So basically, they used the networks of the Communist and the Socialist movements, the labor movements, and peasant movements, et cetera, to form this guerrilla resistance army. So that’s the first phase of the Huk Rebellion.
And then after the war, when the Philippines gained independence, there was a chance for the Huks to give up their arms and join the government and to exist legally in the political arena. But World War II then became the Cold War. So anything affiliated with communism or the Communist Party or the Socialist Party was deemed illegal by the government and basically, most of these movements, including their members, were then persecuted. There were some leaders who were even assassinated or jailed. So because of this persecution, they decided not to give up arms, but to actually continue their rebellion. So the second phase of the movement was still called the Huk movement, but this time they were called the Hukbong Magpapalaya ng Bayan (HMB), which means People’s Liberation Army. So it’s no longer against the Japanese, but this time it’s against the Philippine government.
How did women get involved in the movement?
During the 30s, women were already involved, in the peasant movements especially. So they already have this tradition of resistance and radicalism. So a lot of women who were already part of this organization decided to join the Huk movement.
“Huk guerillas had to learn how to ambush the enemy and position themselves to fight a military truck or tank,” like this Japanese Type 89 Chi-Ro tank, writes Lanzona. Gary Todd/Public Domain
What kind of roles did these women fill within the Huk rebellion?
Women were very crucial in terms of the support network. During the Japanese occupation, women were able to get intelligence about Japanese movements, so they acted as spies, spying on the Japanese and then telling the guerrillas about their movements. The women were also very crucial in terms of organizing and recruiting more people to join the guerrilla movement. Because women are always seen as less threatening, they could freely move around the areas which were even heavily controlled by the Japanese. So they became intelligence agents, spies, organizers. A lot of women also became part of the education department, [which] was meant to educate the so-called masses about what the movement was all about and what they were fighting for.
Eventually, a very limited number of women actually became part of the military department where they were trained in the use of weapons and guns. They were right there fighting with the men. I was even able to track three women who became commanders of their platoons, who were trained as soldiers and then commanded a group of male soldiers in operations against the Japanese. There is one woman, Celia Mariano-Pomeroy, who became a member of the politburo, which is the highest-ranking body in the movement.
Can you tell me about Commander Liwayway?
Her real name is Remedios Gomez-Paraiso, but her soldier’s name is Commander Liwayway, meaning “Dawn” in Filipino. She did not finish high school because she had to help out the family. But her father was a very prominent peasant leader who eventually became the mayor of their town in Pampanga during the Japanese occupation. Growing up, she was already involved in the movement in different ways. She was a beauty pageant winner, so she was involved in different kinds of festivities relating to the peasant organization. She wasn’t very involved politically. But then her father became one of the first casualties of the Japanese because he refused to cooperate with the Japanese when they entered the town. He refused to surrender. So the Japanese punished him and tortured him and killed him. His body was displayed in the town for everyone to see. So at that point, she did not have any choice but to leave their town and join the rebellion and move into the mountain camps where the guerrillas were hiding. In fact, the Japanese didn’t even give the family his body. There was so much anger and feelings of vengeance. And I think that those feelings really catapulted Liwayway to train herself to be a good soldier—not just in terms of the organization, but really in terms of combat. And then when they wanted a commander leading a group of men, she volunteered and, in fact, had already earned the respect of the men around her. She became kind of legendary.
Before joining the Central Luzon Huks as Commander Liwayway, Remedios Gomez-Paraiso was known in her rural town for her poise and beauty.  CPA Media Pte Ltd / Alamy Stock Photo
How is Commander Liwayway, who died in 2014, remembered today?
People, especially from Pampanga, still remember Commander Liwayway. She has this kind of legendary image of being in men’s uniforms, carrying weapons, riding this white horse, and then leading this group of men to military battles and victories. [But she almost] always wore dresses. And in fact, she was legendary not just for her military exploits, but for being so glamorous and wearing lipstick every time she went into a battle.
What have you learned from these women, from talking to them and writing about them?
I think what I’ve learned is that it’s really essential to uncover these hidden histories and the stories of women because they were right there at the center of everything, even though they were marginalized. Even though their voices and their side of the story are not reflected in history, they’re very central. There’s no such thing as women being peripheral figures. In fact, they’re very central because they both shape and make these histories.
I think I also learned that we should always try to look for these stories and not be discouraged from their seeming invisibility. Because once you have this idea that they’re central to the story uncovering their stories is always such a rewarding experience—both for them to share their stories but also for me as a researcher and historian to make their stories part of history.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.






Read next

8 Podcast Episodes About Odd and Amazing Public Art


We've visited some surprising sculptures, monuments, and folk art masterpieces over the last two years.








warfareshe was thererevolutionwomen's historykickass womenwarmilitary historywar historyworld war iimilitaryhistory & culturehistory








Want to see fewer ads?
Become a Member.










Want to see fewer ads?
Become a Member.




























Using an ad blocker?
We depend on ad revenue to craft and curate stories about the world’s hidden wonders. Consider supporting our work by becoming a member for as little as $5 a month.

Continue Using Ad-Block
Support Us 


















Keep Exploring









military history

Meet Caterina Sforza and Other Warrior Queens History Forgot


From Italy’s fortress-seizing countess to Angola’s battle-hardened Queen Njinga, these women didn’t back down from a fight.



Sarah Durn

January 26, 2023













military history

Did Khutulun and Other Warrior Women Actually Fight in the Mongol Army?


From wielding lethal bows to commanding troops, the female soldiers of the Central Asian steppe were formidable foes.



Sarah Durn

July 12, 2022













royalty

The Forgotten Women Who Ruled the Medieval Middle East


A new book tells the tales of the queens of Jerusalem.



Sarah Durn

January 25, 2022













ships

The Untold Stories of the Women Who Led Slave Revolts


Their inspiring acts of resistance were ignored or erased for centuries—until now.



Sarah Durn

March 9, 2023














Video

Meet Ms. Showtime: Motorcyclist, Poet, Trailblazer






6:33











Video • Gastro Obscura

The Chinese Bagel That Helped to Win a War






2:58











Video

There's an Abandoned Futuristic Fort in Portland, Maine






3:32











Video • AO Docs

How a Border Village Keeps the Memories of Divided Families Alive






7:32











Video

The Many Lives of Oʻahu’s Majestic Koko Crater Trail






4:58











Video • Object of Intrigue

The Spy Tactic That Almost Destroyed WWII Britain






2:40











Video

See the Mysterious Horned Helmet of Henry VIII






4:00











Video

One Street: Chinatown-International District, Seattle






06:59

Sponsored by Visit Seattle
















Video • AO Docs

Hawaiʻi’s Native-Language Newspaper Archive






3:35

Sponsored by Olukai
















Video • AO Docs

'Discovering' Mexico's Monarch Butterfly Migration






6:46











Video • Object of Intrigue

The Real Story Behind George Washington's Dentures






3:30











Video • Object of Intrigue

Behold, the Vampire-Killing Kit






4:19













Want to see fewer ads? Become a Member.


From Around the Web










THE GASTRO OBSCURA BOOK


Taste the World!
An eye-opening journey through the history, culture, and places of the culinary world.
Order Now





















































See Fewer Ads
Become an Atlas Obscura member and experience far fewer ads and no pop-ups.

Learn More









Get Our Email Newsletter











Thanks for subscribing!
View all newsletters »




 





Follow Us












Get the app









Download the App








Places 



All Places
Latest Places
Most Popular
Places to Eat
Random
Nearby
Add a Place





Editorial 



Stories
Food & Drink
Itineraries
Lists
Puzzles
Video
Podcast
Newsletters





Trips 



All Trips
Trips Blog
Art & Culture Trips
Food Trips
Hidden City Trips
History Trips
Photography Trips
Wildlife & Nature Trips
FAQ





Experiences



Experiences
Online Courses
Online Experience FAQ
Online Course FAQ





Community 



Membership
Feedback & Ideas
Community Guidelines
Product Blog
Unique Gifts
Work With Us





Company 



About
Contact Us
FAQ
Advertise With Us
Advertising Guidelines
Press
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Terms of Use

































© 2023 Atlas Obscura. All rights reserved.







Questions or Feedback? Contact Us





































Thanks for sharing!
Follow us on Twitter to get the latest on the world's hidden wonders.
Like us on Facebook to get the latest on the world's hidden wonders.
Follow us on Twitter
Like us on Facebook





















Want a Free Book?

Sign up for our newsletter and enter to win the second edition of our book, Atlas Obscura: An Explorer’s Guide to the World’s Hidden Wonders.




Subscribe


No Thanks
Visit AtlasObscura.com

 











Stay in Touch!
Follow us on social media to add even more wonder to your day.
Follow us on Twitter
Like us on Facebook
Follow Us on Instagram
No Thanks
Visit AtlasObscura.com





No purchase necessary. Winner will be selected at random on 05/01/2023. Offer available only in the U.S. (including Puerto Rico). Offer subject to change without notice. See contest rules for full details.

















Add Some Wonder to Your Inbox
Every weekday we compile our most wondrous stories and deliver them straight to you.






Subscribe
 


No Thanks

 













We'd Like You to Like Us
Like Atlas Obscura and get our latest and greatest stories in your Facebook feed.




No Thanks




































aoc-full-screen



aoc-heart-solid



aoc-compass



aoc-flipboard



aoc-globe



aoc-pocket



aoc-share



aoc-cancel



aoc-video



aoc-building



aoc-clock



aoc-clipboard



aoc-help



aoc-arrow-right



aoc-arrow-left



aoc-ticket



aoc-place-entry



aoc-facebook



aoc-instagram



aoc-reddit



aoc-rss



aoc-twitter



aoc-accommodation



aoc-activity-level



aoc-add-a-photo



aoc-add-box



aoc-add-shape



aoc-arrow-forward



aoc-been-here



aoc-chat-bubbles



aoc-close



aoc-expand-more



aoc-expand-less



aoc-forum-flag



aoc-group-size



aoc-heart-outline



aoc-heart-solid



aoc-home



aoc-important



aoc-knife-fork



aoc-library-books



aoc-link



aoc-list-circle-bullets



aoc-list



aoc-location-add



aoc-location



aoc-mail



aoc-map



aoc-menu



aoc-more-horizontal



aoc-my-location



aoc-near-me



aoc-notifications-alert



aoc-notifications-mentions



aoc-notifications-muted



aoc-notifications-tracking



aoc-open-in-new



aoc-pencil



aoc-person



aoc-pinned



aoc-plane-takeoff



aoc-plane



passport-plane



aoc-print



aoc-reply



aoc-search



aoc-shuffle



aoc-star



aoc-subject



aoc-trip-style



aoc-unpinned



aoc-send




aoc-phone




aoc-apps




aoc-lock




aoc-verified












