












 


France Joins AUKUS Submarine Program - Naval News






















































































        Click here - to select or create a menu        

 






 













 








 






 
News
Event News

Sea Air Space 2023
DSEI Japan 2023
NAVDEX 2023
SNA 2023
Euronaval 2022
Indo Pacific 2022


Interviews
Videos
Advertising
About Us
Contact Us


 


















 Home» News»France Joins AUKUS Submarine Program 






 


 



 

The AUKUS program will provide new submarines for the Royal Australian Navy, Royal Navy and  French Navy (Marine Nationale)



                France Joins AUKUS Submarine Program              

               Under extended plans, France will join the AUKUS submarine program. This will see advanced nuclear-powered attack submarines built for Australia, United Kingdom and France. The United States is also providing key elements, including interim submarines for the Royal Australian Navy.             

Naval News Staff 

  01 Apr 2023  
 

Important update on this article: April Fool’s
The French government has joined the previously trinational AUKUS submarine program. Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States are already involved in the 368 billion dollar project. The plan is to build and deliver a new class of nuclear-powered attack submarine for the respective navies. Now the French Navy (Marine Nationale) could receive up to four submarines under the plans.

The AUKUS submarine deal was announced in a joint session by British, the American and Australian leaders on September 18 2021. A follow-up announcement on March 13 2023 confirmed that the British SSN(R) program would form the basis of the AUKUS design. It is unclear whether the French boats will be exactly like their Anglo-Saxon counterparts, or slightly slimmer.

Design Influences
There were already indications that this new partnership was imminent. It may explain why some official images of the then-called AUKUS submarine, released March 14, appear to show it with a French style sail. The sail depicted closely resembled the Barracuda class submarine which is now entering service with the French Navy.

In anticipation of cost overruns with the interior design of the crew accommodation and galley spaces, the submarines will be built for-but-not-with (FBNW) torpedo tubes. The new arrangement could save millions in operating costs. This is according to an anonymous source with direct knowledge of the operational planning.

The torpedo tube situation would not be permeant. “In the event of increased tensions or the outbreak of hostilities” the source added “the submarines could be rebuilt with torpedo tubes in just a matter of years”. It should be remembered that a 4 year overhaul is considered short in submarine terms. Especially in Canada.

The submarine service remains silent on the new deal.

Joint Construction Key To Success
It is understood that the submarines will be built in a new facility exactly halfway between Southampton and Cherbourg. The latter is the home of French submarine building. Such a political decision was widely expected. It is the hallmark of international collaborations in the defense arena. Australia’s submarines will be built locally in Australian yards, and assembled in France and the United Kingdom. The completed submarines will then be shipped by rail via the Suez Canal to Australia.

The upgraded program will be renamed FUKUS after France joins. Following the expected formal announcement, the submerge à trois will become a submerge à quatre. Boris Johnson, who was among the leaders who originally announced the AUKUS program, is said to be keen to join the celebrations. A Downing Street spokesperson has preemptively denied the existence of the planned catered business meetings.

It is understood that Canada will not be allowed to join FUKUS for common decency reasons.


AUKUS Submarine 
            2023-04-01            
Tags AUKUS Submarine 







 Facebook
 Twitter
 Stumble
 linkedin
 Pinterest
More



 










      Related Articles    








 


        April Fools: No, France is not Joining AUKUS        

Naval News Staff

            02 Apr 2023            



          News that France will join the AUKUS submarine program with the name of the program to become FUKUS is not accurate. We hope :).        




 


        South Korea’s DSME Lays Keel of  First KSS-III Batch II Submarine        

Jamie Chang

            30 Mar 2023            



          South Korea’s DAPA held a keel laying ceremony for the first KSS-III Batch II submarine at the DSME shipyard.        








 


        France’s 2nd Barracuda Type Submarine Aces Alpha Trials        

Xavier Vavasseur

            28 Mar 2023            



          The second Barracuda type nuclear-powered attack submarine (SSN) for the French Navy (Marine Nationale) successfully completed its initial sea trials.        









 




Advertisement
 

 

Advertisement









Advertisement
















 Legal / Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us

 







        Copyright © 2022 Naval News       


        All Rights Reserved      
































We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.Ok


