






Fear persists among migrants a week after deadly Mexico fire - La Prensa Latina Media






















































































						Tuesday, April 4 2023					




Breaking News



US businesspeople against including Cuba on terrorism sponsor list


Nutrition initiative reaches first rural families in Guatemala


DNA samples offer fresh hope for kin of Colombia’s missing


Russia charges cafe bombing suspect with terrorism


Pro- and anti-Trump groups gather around NY courthouse amid great expectation


Mexico’s FEMSA Foundation to invest 22 million dollars in water, sanitation


UN slams Taliban for stopping its female workers from going to work


Pakistan, Russia negotiating deal for first ever delivery of crude oil


Avalanche kills 7 on mountain pass between India, China


Police raid EPP HQ in Brussels in connection with German investigation





 


Sidebar





Random Article





Log In 

 







Menu











Search for

 










Home
News

Arts & Entertainment
Business & Economy
Collaborators
COVID-19
Health
Immigration
Mid-South
International
Life & Leisure
Politics
Science & Technology
Sports


  E-Edition
Weather
Distribution Locations
Advertising
Contact
 
 




Search for



TikTokInstagramYouTubeLinkedInTwitterFacebook 










 Home/Politics/Fear persists among migrants a week after deadly Mexico fire

Politics

			Fear persists among migrants a week after deadly Mexico fire		
Online News EditorApril 3, 2023 3 minutes read  



By Guadalupe Peñuelas
Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, Apr 3 (EFE).- A week after a fire that claimed the lives of 39 Central and South Americans at a Mexican government-run migrant detention center in Ciudad Juarez, fear and calls for justice persist among undocumented foreigners stranded in that city located across from El Paso, Texas.
In the wake of the fatal incident, which also left 28 injured, 24 of whom remain hospitalized, the migrants’ main fear is being apprehended by agents with the National Institute of Migration (INM), the agency that ran the now-shuttered facility where the tragedy occurred.
Lacking money for basic necessities, many work on the street cleaning motorists’ windshields or selling sweets.
One of several migrants hiding out from the INM inside an abandoned building in Juarez is Venezuela’s Joaquin Enriquez, who told Efe the money he had when he arrived in Mexico a few weeks ago is now gone.
“We’re staying in this place because we don’t have any money to eat or to rent a room. We’re afraid of (immigration agents) because they always want to send you back home. If it was a fire now, you don’t know if the next time it’ll be a bomb,” he said suspiciously.
Another inhabitant of that same place is his compatriot Demi Corso, who said that discrimination in Mexico is hidden at first but rears its ugly head at the slightest provocation.
“There’s a lot of xenophobia in Mexico. I clean the windshields of cars, and they wanted to kill me for trying to survive. A driver shouted at me, ‘that’s why they kill Venezuelans!” Corso said.
The building housing the migrants is adequate for their basic needs: clothes hang out to dry on clothes lines, there are wooden boxes and buckets to sit on and a coal-fired stove to prepare food that is shared among around 50 people.
Maria de Souse, a Venezuelan native, is tasked with cooking and serving meals to the inhabitants.
“I was one of the first people who arrived. We cleaned and removed all the trash to give the area some dignity,” she told Efe.
De Souse added that battling discrimination and xenophobia, particularly when it comes from the Mexican government, is a tough challenge. She said she does not wish to stay in Juarez and that, like many migrants, sees it only as a stopover on her journey to the United States.
“We don’t have food to eat. My husband cleans windshields and washes cars. We’re terrified of immigration (officials) because we saw the videos. There was a way to save the migrants and they allowed them to die with a coldness that’s frightening,” she added.
De Souse was referring to surveillance video that showed guards walking away from the detention facility after migrants had set fire to mattresses inside their cell and making no attempt to save their lives.
All 50 people living inside the building receive blankets, cardboard and other materials as protection from the cold.
“No one is charged anything because we all see one another as brother and sister migrants,” De Souse said.
On Sunday, a group of 100 migrants paid tribute to the 39 people who died in the March 27 fire in a demonstration along the Rio Grande, where they demanded a memorial be built and justice be served.
Also Sunday, the Catholic Church called on the Mexican government to stop seeing migrants as criminals and demanded they be treated with dignity and that those responsible for the tragedy not go unpunished.
On Friday, Mexico’s security and civilian protection secretary, Rosa Icela Rodriguez, announced that the detention center where the fire occurred – a facility that had been housing nearly 70 people at the time – will be permanently closed.
For its part, Mexico’s attorney general’s office said five people detained thus far suspects are in pretrial detention and will have a court hearing on Tuesday. EFE
 TagsEFE MEXICO MIGRANTS



Online News EditorApril 3, 2023 3 minutes read  






 Facebook


 Twitter


 LinkedIn


 WhatsApp


 Share via Email


 Print
 





Related Articles




US businesspeople against including Cuba on terrorism sponsor list
April 4, 2023 


Pro- and anti-Trump groups gather around NY courthouse amid great expectation
April 4, 2023 


UN slams Taliban for stopping its female workers from going to work
April 4, 2023 


Nato ministers meet to formally welcome Finland to alliance
April 4, 2023 






Check Also

Close






Politics 

Japan remains on sidelines of treaty to abolish atomic weapons

October 26, 2020 









Weather








Memphis
Scattered Clouds



							85							℉



 86º - 80º
							


 49%
							


 15.39 mph

 








85℉
Tue








82℉
Wed













66℉
Thu








59℉
Fri








66℉
Sat


 
U.S. COVID-19 Status

Cases
106,253,348


Deaths
1,155,356


Active
1,066,175


Critical
1,984


Recovered
104,031,817

Last Update on: April 4, 2023 at 3:18 pm 











© Copyright 2023, All Rights Reserved  |  Mendelson and Associates, LLCFacebookTwitterLinkedInYouTubeInstagramTikTok








 Facebook


 Twitter
 




Back to top button





Close





FacebookTwitterLinkedInYouTubeInstagramTikTok





Search for:





Recent Posts


US businesspeople against including Cuba on terrorism sponsor list


Nutrition initiative reaches first rural families in Guatemala


DNA samples offer fresh hope for kin of Colombia’s missing


Russia charges cafe bombing suspect with terrorism


Pro- and anti-Trump groups gather around NY courthouse amid great expectation


Recent Comments 




 

Close







Search for







Close





Log In 







Forget?



 Remember me			
Log In

























