

    WWII-era bomb explodes in England in "unplanned" detonation - CBS News













Donald Trump Indictment




Finland Joins NATO




Oil Production Cuts




Biden and Reelection




CBS News Live




Managing Your Money




Essentials Shopping




Newsletters


















News




US




World




Politics




Entertainment




HealthWatch




MoneyWatch




CBS Village




Technology




Science




Crime




Sports




Essentials








Live Updates: Trump pleads not guilty to 34 counts in Manhattan courtroom




Watch Live: Manhattan DA Alvin Bragg speaks after Trump arraignment




Read the full Trump indictment charging him with 34 felony counts




Trump to address supporters in Florida after pleading not guilty in New York




Marjorie Taylor Greene joins NYC protest at Trump arraignment




Wall Street Journal reporter held in Russia meets with lawyers




As Finland joins NATO, here's what it means and why it matters




Many workers willing to take a pay cut to work remotely




Passenger dies after falling from cruise ship balcony onto lower deck











Shows




Live




Local




More




Latest




Video




Photos




Podcasts




In Depth




Local




Global Thought Leaders




Innovators & Disruptors





Log In




Newsletters




Mobile




RSS




CBS Store




Paramount+




Join Our Talent Community




Davos 2023





Search




Search



Login










Watch CBS News












          World
          

WWII-era bomb explodes in England in "unplanned" detonation




            By Kerry Breen
          

February 11, 2023 / 11:45 AM
          / CBS News
        



















WWII bomb explodes in U.K. 











WWII bomb explodes in U.K.
00:22




A World War II bomb that was found in Great Yarmouth, England exploded on Friday in what authorities are calling an "unplanned" detonation.Officials first became aware of the 250 kilogram (about 550 pounds) explosive on Tuesday, Feb. 7, when a contractor who was doing dredging work in the River Yare discovered it, according to a news release from the city. Emergency services and local authorities declared a "major incident" and activated emergency plans. An Explosion Ordnance Device team was also summoned to the area. Roads were closed and the immediate area was evacuated. On Friday, work began to disarm the explosives remaining in the device, but somehow it detonated, causing a large explosion that was captured on video by a police drone. The video was shared on Twitter. 
The unexploded bomb in #GreatYarmouth detonated earlier during work to disarm it. Our drone captured the moment. We can confirm that no one was injured. Public safety has been at the heart of our decision making all the way through this operation, which we know has been lengthy. pic.twitter.com/9SaeYmHkrb— Norfolk Police (@NorfolkPolice) February 10, 2023

In a news release, officials said that a protective sandbox had been built around the bomb in case of an unexpected detonation. That sandbox prevented injuries, and on Twitter, officials said that "no one was injured" in the day's events.  






Evacuation orders have been lifted and Great Yarmouth Borough Council Chief Executive Sheila Oxtoby thanked community members for their patience and understanding throughout the multi-day process. "This has been an unsettling time for many people, most of all for those who were evacuated from their homes. Safety of the public has been at the heart of decision making throughout this multi-agency operation. While it may have been slow, yesterday afternoon's events show why it was so important to take all necessary measures to minimize any risk to the public," Oxtoby said, according to the news release. "... I'd like to thank everyone involved for bringing this to a safe conclusion and we will continue to help those residents displaced." 


It's not clear how many people were displaced due to the explosion. Officials said that a nearby tower crane seen in the drone video has been deemed "safe." Environment Agency engineers will inspect a river wall today that was damaged in the explosion, but "initial assessments show" that the flood defense it provides has not been compromised. 


Trending News






4 people found dead near the beach in Cancun's hotel area







"World's deepest fish" caught on camera — 27,000 feet below the surface







Woman was among victims on doomed 17th century warship, DNA shows







A proposed law bans English in Italy — and violators could face hefty fines







"Godfather of artificial intelligence" weighs in on the past and potential of AI




In:
          World War II
Explosion
United Kingdom

Kerry Breen







Kerry Breen is a news editor and reporter for CBS News. Her reporting focuses on current events, breaking news and substance use.






First published on February 11, 2023 / 11:45 AM


© 2023 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.


Thanks for reading CBS NEWS. 
Create your free account or log in  for more features.




 Continue 



                Please enter email address to continue
            

                Please enter valid email address to continue
            


















Copyright ©2023 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Terms of Use
About
Advertise
Closed Captioning
CBS News Live on Paramount+
CBS News Store
Site Map
Contact Us
Help


facebook




twitter




instagram




youtube



View CBS News In




CBS News App

Open





Chrome




Safari

Continue



Be the first to know
Get browser notifications for breaking news, live events, and exclusive reporting.
Not Now
Turn On


