































Project Paperclip and American Rocketry after World War II | National Air and Space Museum












Skip to main content
















Donate Now












































      One museum, two locations
    

      Visit us in Washington, DC and Chantilly, VA to explore hundreds of the world’s most significant objects in aviation and space history. 
    



Visit
          


National Air and Space Museum in DC


Udvar-Hazy Center in VA


Plan a field trip


Plan a group visit










      At the museum and online
    

      Discover our exhibitions and participate in programs both in person or virtually.
    



What's On
          


Events


Exhibitions


IMAX










      Dive deep into air and space
    

      Browse our collections, stories, research, and on demand content.
    



Explore
          


Stories


Topics


Collections


On demand


For researchers










      For teachers and parents
    

      Bring the Air and Space Museum to your learners, wherever you are.
    



Learn
          


Programs


Learning resources


Plan a field trip


Educator professional development


Education monthly theme










      Be the spark
    

      Your support will help fund exhibitions, educational programming, and preservation efforts. 
    



Give
          


Become a member


Wall of Honor


Ways to give


Host an Event










Project Paperclip and American Rocketry after World War II 
      

        Mar 31, 2023
      

      By 
        Michael Neufeld








Home
            

Project Paperclip and American Rocketry after World War II


















 
Project Paperclip was the second name for a program to bring German and Austrian engineers, scientists, and technicians to the United States after the end of World War II in Europe. Known by many today as “Operation Paperclip,” which is actually a misnomer, it was originally called Project Overcast. Its official objective was to bring these experts to the United States for six months to a year to help America in the war against Japan. But that war suddenly ended in August 1945 and the program continued anyway. In fact, the U.S. armed forces and civilian agencies sought long-term advantages for the United States through the seizure of Third Reich technologies that they saw as superior to, or competitive with, Allied ones—notably aircraft, rockets, and missiles. The people who had invented or designed these weapons were needed to help transfer the technology. So what began as a short-term advisory project quickly evolved into a program of permanent immigration. 




Dr. Wernher von Braun (right) with his Army superiors, Maj. James Hammill (left) and Col. Holger Toftoy (center) in the late 1940s. (U.S. Army)Many of Project Paperclip's scientists and engineers had Nazi records, which were seen as an inconvenient problem by the project's administrators. Roughly half of the early Paperclip specialists had been members of the Nazi Party, many opportunistically. A minority were true believers who had significant party records or had joined the SS (Schutzstaffel), or SA (Sturmabteilung) also known as Brownshirts for their brown uniform. The rapid deterioration of relations with the Communist-run Soviet Union, which by 1948 led to a Cold War that threatened to turn hot, made the immigration of ex-Nazis more palatable to the American government and public. It became easier to sweep their past under the rug. The argument was that we needed them for our weapons programs or, at the very least, we needed to deny their knowledge and talents to the Soviets.  
A case in point was the V-2 ballistic missile group led by Dr. Wernher von Braun. He had been a party member and SS officer and was at least tangentially involved in the murderous exploitation of concentration-camp prisoners in missile production, as were several associates. The U.S. Army kept that information classified and brought von Braun and about 125 colleagues to Fort Bliss, outside El Paso, Texas. The Germans helped Americans launch V-2s and were tasked with developing an experimental cruise missile. In 1950, von Braun’s group was moved to Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville, Alabama, and became the heart of the Army’s nuclear-armed ballistic missile development. In his spare time, von Braun made himself world-famous by advocating spaceflight in magazines and on TV. Soon after the Soviets launched Sputnik in October 1957, he and his German-led group, now numbering in the thousands (almost all native-born Americans), helped launch the first United States satellite, Explorer I. In 1960, von Braun’s division of the Army Ballistic Missile Agency was transferred to a new civilian space agency, NASA. The Huntsville Germans, most naturalized in 1954-1955, went on to lead the development of the Saturn rockets that put Americans on the Moon in 1969.




The British and German inventors of the turbojet engine, Sir Frank Whittle (left), and Dr. Hans Pabst von Ohain (right) met in Museum offices in 1974. The U.S. Air Force brought von Ohain to America after World War II through Project Paperclip. He worked as a research engineer at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio for many years. (Smithsonian Institution)That spectacular Cold War story has long overshadowed the project to the point that, even today, members of the general public and the media often equate the von Braun group with Paperclip. In fact, the Huntsville Germans, numbering closer to 200 by the mid-fifties thanks to later arrivals, were never more than 15 to 20 percent of Paperclip’s intake. The U.S Air Force, not the Army, brought over the most experts, and other specialists went to Navy facilities or those of the Commerce Department and private companies. It was part of a broad program to exploit German science and technology, one that paralleled projects in the Soviet Union, Britain, France, and several smaller countries. Most Paperclip specialists were dispersed as individuals or small groups to military laboratories, universities, and private companies, with the result that they did not have the public profile of the Huntsville Germans.  




Dr. Wernher von Braun (right) holds up the Explorer 1 satellite with Dr. William H. Pickering and Dr. James A. van Allen. (NASA) 




The U.S. Army Redstone liquid-fuel ballistic missile, shown here at the Stephen F. Udvar-Hazy Center, was developed by the von Braun team in Huntsville, Alabama. It played an important role in early US missile and space programs. (Smithsonian Institution)Another common fallacy is that von Braun’s group, and by extension, all the Paperclip arrivals, came to help the United States space program. But before the Eisenhower Administration started the Vanguard satellite project in 1955, there was no space program. The aerospace specialists, who constituted most of the Paperclip program, were here to help the United States in the rapidly developing arms race with the Soviet Union. Notable areas of focus were guided missiles, supersonic aerodynamics, guidance and control, rocket and jet engines, and aerospace medicine. In missile development, von Braun’s group accelerated the integration of German liquid-propellant rocket technology. But American rocket groups and companies had already formed in World War II—notably Reaction Motors in New Jersey and Aerojet and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in California—which meant that the Germans were only one part of a complex story of technological change and adaptation. The driving force in rocket development after World War II, and especially after 1950, was the nuclear arms race. Until Vanguard and Sputnik, space exploration was only a side effect and an afterthought. V-2s and new United States sounding rockets reached into the extreme upper atmosphere and near-space to understand the environment that missiles would travel through. 
In sum, Project Paperclip made a significant contribution to American technology, rocket development, military preparedness and, eventually, spaceflight. But there was a moral cost to the program: the coverup of the Nazi records of many of the specialists. In a small number of cases, the United States hosted and integrated people who should have faced war crimes trials. These facts often lead to black-and-white judgments: either the Paperclip scientists and engineers were all Nazi criminals or all technological geniuses. In my assessment, the project and related efforts to seize German knowledge did greatly benefit American science, technology, and national security in the Cold War, but we needed a better filter to screen out some of the worst offenders. In the late forties and early fifties era of anti-Communist anxiety especially, it was all too easy to obscure and excuse their Nazi past. The facts came out only in the 1980s, when their files were declassified. Only then was it possible to make a balanced judgment about Project Paperclip.  
Michael J. Neufeld is a Senior Curator in the Space History Department and the author of The Rocket and the Reich and Von Braun: Dreamer of Space, Engineer of War.   





Related Topics

Missiles
Rockets
Satellites
War and Conflict
Cold War








Twitter



Comments? Contact Us









You may also like









      The Myth of the German “Wonder Weapons”
    


    April 13, 2020
  








      “Vengeance Weapon 2”: 70th Anniversary of the V-2 Campaign
    


    September 08, 2014
  








Mars Project: Wernher von Braun as a Science-Fiction Writer
    


    January 22, 2021
  








       “Wonder Weapons” and Slave Labor
    


    June 23, 2020
  








Support the Museum
We rely on the generous support of donors, sponsors, members, and other benefactors to share the history and impact of aviation and spaceflight, educate the public, and inspire future generations.  With your help, we can continue to preserve and safeguard the world’s most comprehensive collection of artifacts representing the great achievements of flight and space exploration.
Donate Now
Become a Member 










About


Newsroom


Support


Get Involved


Contact


Host an Event







 



 



 



 



 



 







        Stay up to date on the latest stories and events with our newsletter
      













Thank you. You have successfully signed up for our newsletter.

Error message
Sorry, there was a problem. Please ensure your details are valid and try again. 














National Air and Space Museum


 

6th St. and Independence Ave SW


 

Washington, DC 20560




202-633-2214




Open daily







Open daily




10:00 am - 5:30 pm


 Free Timed-Entry Passes  Required 









Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center


 

14390 Air and Space Museum Parkway


 

Chantilly, VA 20151




703-572-4118




Open daily







Open daily




10:00 am - 5:30 pm










Privacy
Terms of Use






