








	Soldier Accounted For From World War II (Knoll, G.) > Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency > PressReleaseArticleView

























            An official website of the United States government 
        Here's how you know 
        







 Official websites use .mil A .mil website belongs to an official U.S. Department of Defense organization in the United States.



Secure .mil websites use HTTPS A lock (lock  ) or  https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .mil website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.








Skip to main content (Press Enter).




Toggle navigation








Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency
Fulfilling Our Nation's Promise


                    Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency
                






Search


Search DPAA: 


Search




Search DPAA: 


Search














Home
		


Families
		


Our Missing



Past Conflicts
            


Recently Accounted For
            


World War II



World War II Summary
            


Battle of Tarawa
            


Attack on Pearl Harbor
            




Korean War



Korean War Summary
            


Battle of Chosin Reservoir
            


Battle of Unsan
            


Korean Air Battles
            


The Inchon Campaign
            


The Pusan Perimeter
            


The DMZ Campaigns
            


Korean War Disinterments
            


Operation Glory
            


POW Camps
            




Vietnam War



Vietnam War Summary
            


Vietnam War Identification Project
            


Tet Offensive
            


Battle of Khe Sanh
            


Mayaguez Incident
            


Battle of Ia Drang
            


Lam Son
            




Cold War
            


Iraq & Other Conflicts
            


Searchable List of the Missing
            


Searchable Map of the Missing
            




News & Stories



Recent News & Stories
            


News Releases
            


Livestreams
            


Year In Review
            


Media Gallery
            




Resources



FAQs
            


AFMES DNA Laboratory
            


DPAA Laboratory
            


Fact Sheets
            


Briefing Videos
            


Science Videos
            


Publicly Released Documents
            


Family/VSO Update Notes
            


Family Member Guide 
            


POW/MIA Day Toolkit
            


Speaking Request
            




Volunteer
		


About



Leadership
            


Vision-Mission-Values
            


DPAA Organizational Chart
            




Contact



Contact Us
            


Join Us



Careers
            




Report a Site
            


Donate to the Mission
            





























News Release














PHOTO INFORMATION





 Download


 Details


 Share














PHOTO INFORMATION





 Download


 Details


 Share
















Press Release | March 17, 2023
            
Soldier Accounted For From World War II (Knoll, G.)




            WASHINGTON   –  
            The Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency (DPAA) announced today that U.S. Army Sgt. Gregory V. Knoll 22, of Garden City, Kansas, killed during World War II, was accounted for Jan. 3, 2023.In November 1944, Knoll was assigned to Company M, 3rd Battalion, 112th Infantry Regiment, 28th Infantry Division. His battalion had been tasked with capturing the town of Schmidt, Germany, in the Hürtgen Forest. A heavy German counterattack overran his unit and forces survivors to withdraw to Kommerscheidt where they fought against additional enemy attacks. He was reported killed in action on Nov. 7., while fighting enemy forces at Kommerscheidt. His remains could not be recovered after the attack.Following the end of the war, the American Graves Registration Command was tasked with investigating and recovering missing American personnel in Europe. They conducted several investigations in the Hürtgen area between 1946 and 1950 but were unable to recover or identify Knoll’s remains. He was declared non-recoverable in November 1951.While studying unresolved American losses in the Hürtgen area, a DPAA historian determined that one set of unidentified remains, designated X-2519 Neuville, recovered at Kommerscheidt in April 1946, possibly belonged to Knoll. The remains, which had been buried in Ardennes American Cemetery, an American Battle Monuments Commission site in Neuville-en-Condroz, Belgium, in 1949, were disinterred in July 2021 and sent to the DPAA laboratory at Offutt Air Force Base, Nebraska, for identification.To identify Knoll’s remains, scientists from DPAA used anthropological analysis, as well as circumstantial evidence. Additionally, scientists from the Armed Forces Medical Examiner System used mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), Y chromosome DNA (Y-STR), and autosomal DNA (auSTR) analysis.Knoll’s name is recorded on the Tablets of the Missing at Henri-Chapelle American Cemetery, an American Battle Monuments Commission site in Plombières, Belgium, along with the others still missing from World War II. A rosette will be placed next to his name to indicate he has been accounted for.Knoll will be buried on July 7, 2023 in Garden City, Kansas.For family and funeral information, contact the Army Casualty Office at (800) 892-2490.DPAA is grateful to the American Battle Monuments Commission and to the U.S. Army Regional Mortuary-Europe/Africa for their partnership in this mission.For additional information on the Defense Department’s mission to account for Americans who went missing while serving our country, visit the DPAA website at www.dpaa.mil, find us on social media at www.facebook.com/dodpaa or https://www.linkedin.com/company/defense-pow-mia-accounting-agency.






                    SHARE
                






                    PRINT
                























































Hosted by Defense Media Activity - WEB.mil












