XFL Round-Up: Guardians Break Into the Win Column, Knocking off Reggie Northrup in Process
Orlando and D.C. matched up in arguably the most exciting game of the XFL season on Saturday night.
DUSTIN LEWIS3 HOURS AGO
HOME
NOLEGAMEDAY
FLORIDA STATE SEMINOLES IN THE PROS
Sports are proof that miracles can happen in incredible fashion. That's exactly what we saw on Saturday night when the winless Orlando Guardians and undefeated D.C. Defenders matched up. Not only did the Guardians score a season-high 37 points, the team was also able to knock off the Defenders by a single point to break into the win column. There are no longer any winless teams remaining in the XFL with three games remaining in the regular season.


READ MORE: FSU Quarterback Commit Invited to Elite 11 Finals Following Performance at Orlando Regional

Despite the loss, D.C. linebacker Reggie Northrup Sr. put together his best performance of the season after sitting out last week. San Antonio running back Jacques Patrick was stifled on the ground but made a couple of plays through the airs as the Brahmas came up short.

There are eight teams in the league that are split into two four-team divisions - the XFL North and XFL South. Each franchise will play the teams in their division twice while also playing the four teams in the opposite division once to make up a total of ten regular season games. The top two teams in each division will advance to the playoffs.


Multiple former Seminoles are playing in the league, including Orlando quarterback Deondre Francois, San Antonio running back Jacques Patrick, Orlando linebacker Terrance Smith, and D.C. linebacker Reggie Northrup.

Here's a complete look at the week and how former Florida State stars performed.

Arlington Renegades (3-4) vs. Seattle Sea Dragons (5-2): Sea Dragons 24, Renegades 15
No former Seminoles participated in the contest.


Seattle utilized a strong second quarter to take a 21-9 lead at the break before controlling the clock in the final two quarters. Former NFL star Josh Gordon caught a 24-yard touchdown as the Sea Dragons extended their winning streak to five straight victories. With the postseason on the horizon, Seattle is peaking at the right time.

Next Week: Arlington at Orlando, D.C. at Seattle


Vegas Vipers (2-5) vs. San Antonio Brahmas (2-5): Vipers 26, Brahmas 12
San Antonio Running Back Jacques Patrick: 12 carries for 20 yards and four catches for 45 yards

San Antonio Offensive Lineman Derrick Kelly: Kelly remains on the Injured/Reserved list after he suffered a calf injury in Week 3


The Brahmas struggled on offense once again as the team came up short for the fourth time in five weeks. Former Seminole Jacques Patrick struggled to find any room on the ground but he was able to make a couple of plays through the air. Despite that, San Antonio only accumulated 206 yards of total offense, including 30 rushing yards.

Next Week: Vegas at St. Louis/San Antonio vs. Houston

Orlando Guardians (1-6) vs. D.C. Defenders (6-1): Guardians 37, Defenders 36
Orlando Quarterback Deondre Francois: Did Not Play. Francois was active but he hasn't participated in the last three games

Orlando Linebacker Terrance Smith: Five total tackles (2 solo, 3 assisted)


Orlando Linebacker DeCalon Brooks: Brooks is on the Injured/Reserved list

D.C. Linebacker Reggie Northrup: Season-High 11 total tackles (6 solo, 5 assisted)

Former FSU cornerback Tony Carter (defensive coordinator), former assistant Mark Snyder (linebackers coach), and former safety Devin Bush Sr. (defensive analyst) are members of Seminole legend Terrell Buckley's coaching staff in Orlando.


The game of the week and maybe of the XFL season to this point of the year was Orlando's upset of the Defenders. The Guardians showed up on offense consistently for the first time this season and it paid off in a big way. Quinten Dormady threw for over 300 yards with three touchdowns and no turnovers as Orlando survived on a missed kick with no time remaining.


Next Week: Orlando vs. Arlington/D.C. at Seattle

Houston Roughnecks (4-3) vs. St. Louis Battlehawks (5-2): Battlehawks 24, Roughnecks 15
St. Louis Wide Receiver George Campbell: Did not record any stats

The Battlehawks lost a fumble on their opening possession of the game but responded with a 96-yard touchdown drive as the offense began to build a rhythm. Quarterback A.J. McCarron continues to be one of the more consistent players in the league as he tossed two scoring passes in the first half and added another in the fourth quarter to put the final touches on the win.


Next Week: St. Louis vs. Vegas/Houston at San Antonio

