XFL REWIND: WEEK 7 BLOG
“Unbelievable. I have been to the Great Wall of China. I have seen the Pyramids of Egypt. But never in all my years as a sportscaster have I witnessed something as improbable, as impossible, as what we've witnessed here.”

– Cotton McKnight, “Dodgeball”

Where was Al Michaels when you needed him? It wasn’t exactly “Do You Believe In Miracles?” from the Team USA hockey takedown of the Soviet Union, but let’s face it … the prospect of the 0-6 team sticking it to the 6-0 team was whimsical at best. (And did you “Dodgeball” fans notice I left out the part about the “grown man and the camel?”)

Now, before you say “ah, it was a trap game, the Defenders were caught looking ahead,” hold on there, Sparky. Orlando has been hiding in plain sight for a while – a dormant volcano for the first month and a half of the season, fully capable of sending lava down the sides of the mountain (if indeed mountains existed in Central Florida). The eruption finally occurred just shy of 9 p.m. Saturday night when Matthew McCrane’s 63-yard field goal attempt fell short at Camping World Stadium. Terrell Buckley’s Guardians finally had that long-awaited first win of the season and yes, Virginia, it had come against the previously undefeated Defenders.

“We gave up close to 40 points so let’s not go crazy patting ourselves on the backs,” Buckley told me the next day. “But this is something to be proud of and to build on.”

Orlando is NOT – repeating, NOT – out of the playoff picture despite that 0-6 start. And the Guardians sure did make things more interesting for the rest of the XFL South with their 37-36 nail-biting win. The top two teams in each division make the postseason, and with three games to play Orlando is two games behind second-place Arlington (3-4) and only one behind third-place San Antonio (2-5).

As for the Guardians’ possibility of trumping the 2018 Indianapolis Colts (who started 1-5 and made the NFL playoffs, albeit in a much larger 16-game season), let’s go live to the ever-optimistic Orlando media relations director, Andy Seeley. (Andy’s the kind of guy who, if he were hit by a truck, would get up smiling about how at least it wasn’t a bigger truck.)

“We play ARL and SA next. Both very winnable games,” Seeley texted. “If we beat them both, we’d be 3-6. Other than their games with us, they both have DC and HOU left on their schedules. Let’s say we beat those two and they lose to DC and HOU … we’d be 3-6, finishing at STL. ARL would finish 3-7, SA would be 2-8 and we’d (possibly) be 4-6 and in the South Division Championship Game.” Dude’s not wrong.

In the XFL North, things have compressed a bit as well, with D.C. at 6-1 and St. Louis and Seattle at 5-2. From here:

C. has one home game and plays teams that are combined 10-11.
Seattle has two home games and plays teams that are a combined 13-8.
Louis has three home games and plays teams that are a combined 8-13.
 Things are about to get very interesting regarding which four teams go forward and which have their seasons end before May. As for this past weekend, let’s get you caught up, with both the first and last games of Week 7 hitting the exact same final score …

Friday, March 31: Seattle Sea Dragons 24, Arlington Renegades 15

The 0-2 toe-stubbing Seattle endured to start its season has officially healed. The Dragons have now achieved a five-game win streak that will be put to the test Sunday at Lumen Field when they get their rematch with D.C. Until then, they can enjoy the fact they overcame Ben DiNucci’s weekly end-zone interception and emerged with a nine-point win “on the road.” (The Dragons merely traveled a few miles from their DFW hotel to Choctaw Stadium. Next week for a home game, they’ll fly more than 1,600 miles to Seattle.)

As Taylor Swift’s concert raged down the street, the Renegades offense continued to be a … wait for it … Blank Space. (By the way, Taylor Swift’s now older than every single player on the Arlington roster. Yeah, I know.) The Renegades’ 15 points were actually a bonanza compared to the last several weeks (point totals of 14, 10, 11, 12 and 9), but at some point, this team will need to get the ball downfield more consistently and get the home crowd excited.

Arlington kept newly imported QB Luis Perez on the bench, but the Renegades will need him to get acclimated to his new surroundings quickly as the team is running out of time to find its groove. The Renegades did manage a season-high two offensive touchdowns Friday but neither will make the “SportsCenter Top Ten” since they were plunges covering a total of 3 yards. The Renegades offense has become numbingly familiar: One or two 1-yard touchdown runs per game; one acrobatic catch by LuJuan Winningham; a handful of down-and-outs to Sal Cannella. They are officially a quart low on razzmatazz.

“I’m frustrated,’ said Coach Bob Stoops after the game. “We’d have second-and-1, third-and-1 and then couldn’t move the ball. You gotta give yourself a chance. Too many drops, that’s for sure. And defensively we had missed tackles, gave up big plays … that’s very uncharacteristic of us.”

From the files of “A for effort,” Arlington did establish season highs in passing (215) and rushing (124) yards. De’Veon Smith rushed for a season-high 61 yards and the two touchdowns. The team rushed for an average of 5 yards per carry, by far a season best. QB Drew Plitt threw for a season-best 213 yards on 19-of-29 completions and backup Kevin Anderson delivered when called on after Plitt briefly left with a sore knee. Eleven different receivers caught a pass from Plitt, but it seemed like a hollow “participation badge” exercise since only Cannella went for more than 40 yards.

But the Renegades gave up season highs on the defensive end in passing (256) and rushing (115) yards, forcing precisely zero punts. They did get a pick from Will Hill to keep alive their streak of at least one takeaway in every game, but they needed a big defensive stand in the fourth quarter that never arrived. After the Renegades had cut the lead to nine with 2:17 to play, Stoops gambled his defense would get them the ball back, eyeing the two-minute warning and a full complement of timeouts. When that failed to happen, it was Arlington’s first loss by more than six points all year.

The Renegades (and assumably Perez) have to be ready to roll Saturday in Orlando, but at least they have an extra day to prepare having played on Friday night.

Seattle deserves credit for signing kicker Dominik Eberle four days before the season kicked off -- his only missed field goal all year was his first one. Ever since, he’s been the German Justin Tucker. In this game, he connected from 44, 33 and 48.

DiNucci, playing down the street not only from Taylor Swift but from where he once made a start for the Dallas Cowboys, delivered 266 passing yards, earmarking Jordan Veasy for 79 of them. Veasy overshadowed “Peasy” (Jahcour Pearson), making it look easy in the game’s first half – one of his catches went for 47 yards down the right sideline. (Author’s note: I also had rhymes involving Yeezy and George Jefferson’s wife “Weezy” good to go there but cooler heads prevailed.)

Josh Gordon reminded everyone he’s still Josh Gordon with a twisting touchdown catch in the final seconds of the first half and Blake Jackson added four catches for 68 yards. And if you’re thinking, “well, they really haven’t had much in the run game,” they’re signing former Denver Bronco Phillip Lindsay for the stretch run.

“Seattle is tough to defend,” said Stoops. “They scramble, they keep plays alive and they do a really nice job with their screens. I give that team, coaching staff, players, everybody a lot of credit.”

Final note: With only seven penalties by the two teams combined, the game was over in a scant 2:32. Must be the pitch clock.

Saturday, April 1: Vegas Vipers 26, San Antonio Brahmas 12

If nothing else, this was a colorful presentation, quite pleasing to the eye: the black and red of the Vipers against the black and bright yellow of the Brahmas. And feel free to mix in green as well if you took the under.

Vegas had allowed between 29 and 32 points in each of its last four games – strangely, the Vipers’ best defensive effort all year had been against powerhouse D.C., losing 18-6 back in Week 2. Could they somehow keep the low-scoring Brahmas in the teens and stay mathematically alive in the XFL North playoff race? (Narrator: Yes. Yes they could.)

San Antonio, meantime, had been doing the “Game of Thrones’” “Hold The Door” thing all year, allowing a league-low 88 points through six games. The door sprung off its hinges as Vegas won a game it absolutely had to have.

The Vipers started poorly. It took San Antonio’s Kurt Benkert all of 3 ½ minutes to get the Brahmas into the end zone on the game’s first drive. Two first-down receptions by Landon Akers and a long pass interference penalty set up Fred Brown to get the glory, and the road team had a quick 6-0 lead. The Vipers answered immediately when new QB1 Jalan McClendon found tight end Sean Price from 33 yards out and took the lead on a successful two-point conversion. (Low-key assist to right tackle Quinterrius Eatmon for recovering a McClendon fumble during the preceding play.)

McClendon is a guy with XFL2020 experience in L.A., having balled out at Baylor then gotten sniffs from both Baltimore and Washington (why wouldn’t the Commanders roll the dice on a former Baylor Bear since RG3 had served them so well?). But this would be his first actual start in a football game since 2018, and with his mom in the stands watching, he delivered a win – not to mention payback for the faith coach Rod Woodson showed in him. You don’t trade Luis Perez if you don’t believe the next man up is pretty good.

The Vipers got the ball back and scored again on a Bailey Giffen field goal. At that point their run/pass mix was a perfectly balanced 10 of each and it looked like it would be Vegas’ day in the midday desert sunshine despite a stretch of three penalties in five plays towards the end of that scoring drive.

Ah, but then Giffen made the fatal error of kicking off to Fred Brown, who by law, must be referred to as “Downtown.” (Every fast athlete or decent outside shooter in basketball with the last name Brown has no choice in the matter. Strangely, guys with the last name White are seldom referred to as “Slight” or “Uptight.” I totally would have bought a No. 92 Eagles or Packers jersey if it had belonged to “Uptight” Reggie White. Oh well.)

Fast Freddie jetted a cool 96 yards with the first kickoff return touchdown in the league this season and the longest TD of any kind. Brown already has 14 games worth of NFL experience with the Broncos and is serving notice at the age of 29 that he’s still got plenty of fuel left to burn.

But the Vipers would score the next two touchdowns while the Brahmas resumed their offensive struggles. A 17-yard pass play to Rod Smith and another 2-point conversion put the home team ahead, 19-12, at the break. Vegas tacked on another touchdown with Jon Lovett running it in from the 1 midway through the third.

The Vipers maintained their 26-12 lead and Pita Taumoepenu made sure it stayed that way with his sixth sack in his last three games, making it awfully tough for NFL scouts to ignore his raw talent. More than one scout has remarked that the Tonga native is one “signature move” away from being a highly paid NFL pass rusher.

The final 25 minutes stayed scoreless as Benkert was wobbly and the Vegas offense slipped into neutral – a real punch to the kisser for those who had taken the over of 38.5.

“Hats off to Rod (Woodson) and the Vipers,” said Brahmas Coach Hines Ward. “He went back to old school one-on-one football. Took their music away, made them go out there and understand what it means to go out there and be a pro. Players can get caught up and think they’ve made it. They haven’t. Our guys haven’t. We’ve got to get back to the basics, like Rod’s team just did. If I have take some privileges away myself, maybe that’s what I’ll do.”

The good news for the Brahmas is their final three games are at the Alamodome and they’re still just one game behind Arlington. The bad news is two of those games are against division leaders Houston and D.C., two teams you have to outscore. Two offensive touchdowns over the last four weeks doesn’t exactly put hope onto a silver platter. And the situation cries out for Calvin Turner to finally get healthy enough to play (or for Ward to put the bat signal in the air for former Steelers teammates Jerome Bettis, Heath Miller and Plaxico Burress).

Vegas technically is all on the road from here on out, but are they really? The places they’re going are an average of 1,011 miles from the Hub in Arlington. Every trip to Cashman Field is 1,208. But since those road teams are St. Louis, Seattle and Houston (combined record: 14-7), that makes it hard to believe the Vipers will Indiana Jones their way out of the cave before the rock seals off the exit.

Saturday, April 1: Orlando Guardians 37, D.C. Defenders 36

No, this is not an April Fool’s Joke. This happened. Back in Week 4, an undefeated team (Houston) had gone into Camping World Stadium and put its feet up on the furniture, winning 44-16. Three weeks later, another undefeated team strode in like Ted McGinley and the other Alpha Betas in “Revenge of the Nerds,” and this time, the nerds were ready. (Winning the talent show competition handily thanks to Lamar Latrell. If you’ve never seen the movie, never mind.) Point is, the Defenders are no longer running away with the XFL North.

The Guardians were bidding to join the 2007 Dolphins and 1976 and 1977 Buccaneers as the only pro football teams in Florida ever to go start a season winless in 10 or more games. The ’07 Dolphins needed a miracle catch and run from Greg Camarillo to finally win in December; an entire docuseries needs to be done on those first and second edition Tampa Bay teams. Let’s offer these fun facts then just leave it:

The Bucs were shut out in 11 of their first 26 games. They began their existence 0-26. As bad as that first (0-14) season was – their second season statistically was worse. Sure, they finally won a couple games … but they had ONE player catch more than 15 passes all year (Morris Owens led the team with 34). Their three quarterbacks – Gary Huff, Randy Hedberg and Jeb Blount – had a combined three touchdowns vs. 30 interceptions. Hedberg, who was from a little school in North Dakota, completed 25 of 90 passes. For no touchdowns and 10 picks. Their first six home games that year they scored three points. Total. (They kicked a field goal in a 9-3 home-opening loss to Minnesota, then were shut out their next five home games.) OK, I’ll stop.

On a balmy Saturday night in Florida, these resilient 2023 Guardians took the lead for good on D.C. with 8:50 remaining in the game. Cody Latimer came across the middle and took a Quinten Dormady pass 44 yards to give the Guardians a 37-36 lead, and then it was time to hang on for dear life, fingernails on the ledge of a high-story office building.

The Guardians coughed the ball up with six minutes remaining. But as the Defenders were driving for a potential go-ahead score, Stansly Maponga forced a fumble at the Orlando 23-yard line and Gerald Willis recovered for Orlando. The Guardians’ offense was able to run all but 30 seconds off the clock. The Defenders had one last shot at victory, advancing to the Orlando 45-yard line with four seconds remaining. D.C. kicker Matthew McCrane’s 63-yard field goal attempt came up short, setting off a wild celebration on the field for the home side.

Both teams had scored a pair of touchdowns in the first quarter. The Defenders volleyed first with a 32-yard touchdown pass from Jordan Ta’amu to Lucky Jackson. A successful two-point pass by the Defenders put them up 8-0. Orlando’s first possession ended with a quarterback sneak for a TD for Quinten Dormady. On Orlando’s second possession, Dormady hooked up with K.D. Cannon for a 41-yard scoring strike to go up 12-8 – Cannon’s first catch in the XFL. D.C. answered with an 11-play, 69-yard drive concluding with a 1-yard rushing touchdown by Abram Smith to reclaim the lead at 14-12.

The Defenders opened the second quarter with a 12-yard touchdown pass from D’Eriq King to tight end Briley Moore. A successful two-point pass from Ta’amu to another tight end (Alex Ellis) put D.C. ahead by 10. But on the final play of the first half, Dormady’s second goal-line rushing touchdown pulled Orlando within four, 22-18.

The Guardians opened the second half with a 46-yard kick return by wide receiver Deddrick Thomas, setting up a 15-yard touchdown pass from Dormady to tight end Jordan Thomas. A successful one-point conversion rush by Jah-Maine Martin put the Guardians up 25-22. (The Guardians converted just one of their six PAT conversions, making things quite a bit tougher than they needed to be.) 

On the following drive, D.C. quickly pushed ahead after a startling 86-yard touchdown pass from Ta’amu to Chris Blair to go up 28-25. The Guardians responded with Dormady’s third QB sneak touchdown of the game to move ahead 31-28 heading into the fourth quarter. (Dormady would end up accounting for all six touchdowns; three sneaking and three throwing.)

Early in the fourth quarter, an Orlando fumble led to a touchdown pass from Ta’amu to Jackson plus a two-point conversion from Ta’amu to Ellis that put D.C. up 36-31 and set up Latimer’s go-ahead TD to make this one the highest-scoring game in XFL history. 

“Shoot that’s all credit to the team, man,” said Dormady, who finished 27-for-34 for 328 yards. “The guys up front blocked. We knew they were going to bring some goofy stuff on defense and our guys held up well. The running backs ran the ball hard all night and receivers made the plays they needed to. This is what we needed moving forward. Guys played their asses off and we’re ready for next week to keep building off this.”

The game featured 888 yards of total offense with the quarterbacks combining for seven touchdown throws and no picks. Each team had a standout performance from a receiver: D.C’s Chris Blair had a single-game league-high 139 yards on only five catches while Latimer ended with 93 on seven.

The Defenders’ lead in the XFL North has shrunk to a single game with those fire-breathing Sea Dragons swinging a flaming bat in the on-deck circle.

As for the Guardians, in the words of the wacky peasants from Monty Python’s “Spamalot,” they’re “not dead yet.”

Sunday, April 2: St. Louis Battlehawks 24, Houston Roughnecks 15

The Roughnecks (4-3) have hit a rough patch. After that powerhouse 4-0 start, they’ve now lost three straight games as injuries to the receiving corps have taken their toll. In this one, injured QB1 Brandon Silvers was listed as inactive, meaning it would be the Cole McDonald Show.

Meanwhile, with three home games waiting for them to close the season, the Battlehawks (5-2) are grooving. They’ve lost twice to D.C. but are otherwise undefeated.

St. Louis started nicely in this one after the teams had traded turnovers. One-time Texans QB A.J. McCarron completed 8 of his first 11 passes including a 14-yard touchdown strike to Gary Jennings, the former West Virginia Mountaineer. In his four years out of college, the Richmond, Va., native has played in only one NFL game (for the Dolphins in 2019 against Buffalo, recording no stats then hitting IR and eventually the waiver wire). His recent play is capturing attention. 

It took the suddenly-less-electric Roughnecks until early in the second quarter to get even, on a short Cole McDonald touchdown pass to former Eagles and Jets receiver Deontay Burnett. Burnett, like Jennings, is a receiver who’s gotten decent looks in various NFL training camps (and made 15 catches in eight games) but needs this XFL stage to re-establish connections. In A.J. Smith’s offense, he is getting that opportunity. 

Tied at 6, the ‘Hawks went back ahead when McCarron found favorite target Hakeem Butler from 5 yards out -- the 2-point conversion made it 14-6 -- and after a Houston field goal cut it to 14-9, the Roughnecks made the mistake of turning it over on downs near midfield with :06 still on the clock. A quick hitter to Butler set up Donny Hageman for a whopping 59-yard field goal try which was … good? What a weekend for the native Californian: After his San Diego State Aztecs had buried a last-second two-point shot to make it the title game of the NCAA basketball tournament, he was clobbering a 59-yard three-pointer of his own, an XFL record.

The 17-9 lead for St. Louis stayed intact through a scoreless slog of a third quarter. But with just under 11 minutes left in the game, a Brian Hill fumble bounced into the eager hands of the Roughnecks’ Will Likely, who sprinted 35 yards for the score his team desperately needed. Needing the 2-point conversion tie, instead McDonald got mauled in the backfield, keeping the score 17-15, Battlehawks. The clinching blow arrived with 3:54 left, when McCarron found Darrius Shepherd in the end zone from 10 yards out. The conversion extended the lead to nine and St. Louis held serve from there. Shepherd had another terrific game, leading the team with seven catches for 70 yards. Several weeks ago, it sure looked like Houston had the deeper stable of receivers – now not so much, especially with Marcel Ateman healthy again for the ‘Hawks. 

St. Louis finishes its road schedule a glistening 4-1 and now goes home for a game Saturday against a Vegas team it just destroyed a week ago, 29-6.

Houston needs to find its offensive mojo again, and the schedule could help. During the Roughnecks’ season-opening four-game win streak, all against division opponents, they averaged 30.5 points per game. The last three weeks, playing the teams in the North with the best records in the league, they’ve settled their hotel bill with 14, 26 and 15. They close with three games against teams with a combined 7-14 record, though two of those are on the road. If that mojo stays missing, their season could end a lot earlier than they’d originally figured.

