XFL St. Louis Battlehawks Troll Rams in April Fools Prank
The XFL's St. Louis Battlehawks had some fun at the Los Angeles Rams' expense on Saturday through a not-so-subtle April Fools' Day prank.

The St. Louis Battlehawks ran a trick play on their local fanbase on Saturday, one that had little chance of truly working but one that poked fun at the previous dwellers of The Dome at America's Center.

With many professional sports teams across the country getting in on the fun of April Fools' Day, the XFL's Battlehawks referenced the Los Angeles Rams' controversial move from St. Louis, teasing fans that they were about to follow in their footsteps. The team's social media account presented a mock statement from the XFL announcing the move, one that many fans immediately saw through but nonetheless enjoyed for its cheeky taunt at the California-bound Rams.

"Following a vote from XFL owners, the Battlehawks have been officially approved to relocate to the greater Los Angeles area and will do so for the 2024 season," the statement reads. "St. Louis is a city known for its incredibly hard-working, passionate, and proud people. Bringing the XFL back to St. Louis in 2023 will go down as one of the proudest moments in our league's history. This move isn't about whether we love St. Louis or its fans, but rather about what is in the best interest of the Battlehawks organization."

The statement cements the Rams connection by mentioning the location of SoFi Stadium.

"We would like to thank the XFL, its owners, and all of Battlehawk Nation for their diligence and dedication, and we look forward to building a world-class franchise in Inglewood."

Anyone legitimately hoping for a return of XFL football to Los Angeles (which previously hosted the Wildcats in the 2020 edition and the champion Xtreme in the loosely-connected original showing from 2001) was left disappointed by a legitimate follow-up statement, which confirms the nature of the April Fools' prank, reading "We're not going anywhere."

Moving the Battlehawks out of St. Louis would certainly be a curious move for the XFL in the midst of its third attempt (meant to be a continuation of the 2020 edition). St. Louis fans, bereft of professional football since the Rams' return to the west coast in 2016, have come out in droves to support the Battlehawks, who play their home games at The Dome at America's Center, the Rams' primary dwelling for their 21 years in the Gateway City (1995-2015). 

The Battlehawks led the XFL in average attendance during the abbreviated 2020 campaign (28,541) and the support has continued upon their return: on Mar. 12, 38,310 fans took in the team's victorious home opener against the Arlington Renegades, setting a new spring football record. Rams owner Stan Kroenke, widely seen as the face behind the team's move, remains a frequent target of insults amongst Battlehawks fans.

Armed with the services of former NFL quarterback and three-time collegiate national champion A.J. McCarron, who throws to Austin Proehl (the son of Rams postseason hero Ricky), the Battlehawks have a 4-2 record through six weeks of XFL play. They'll return to action on Sunday when they face the Houston Roughnecks (11 a.m. PT, to be aired on ESPN). 

