Anonymous NBA GM compared Victor Wembanyama to Kareem Abdul-Jabbar - "Victor is a physical specimen that you rarely see, like Lew Alcindor"
One NBA GM saw flashbacks of a young Kareem Abdul-Jabbar in Victor Wembanyama

The hype around French basketball phenom Victor Wembanyama has been undeniable. NBA scouts and team owners have been keeping tabs on his development, and as early as now, the youngster is already highly touted as this year's projected No. 1 pick in the upcoming draft.

At 7-foot-4, with the mobility of a wing player, Wembanyama is expected to raise the bar in the NBA. A few comparisons have been thrown, but one anonymous NBA general manager predicted Wembanyama has the potential to become a "generational player" and a freak of nature like Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, formerly known as Lew Alcindor.

"Victor is a physical specimen that you rarely see, like Lew Alcindor [Kareem Abdul-Jabbar] or Ralph Sampson. [Wembanyama's] length, size, and skills are unmatched. His work ethic will determine what level he becomes. But he has it all," the NBA GM told Andscape ahead of the 2022-23 season.

Magic thinks Victor is more than just a next Kareem
As we all witnessed, Abdul-Jabbar recreated the standard his predecessors Bill Russell and Wilt Chamberlain set. Moreover, Kareem exceeded expectations by defying the laws of time with his remarkable longevity. While the same thing is forecasted for Wembanyama, Abdul-Jabbar's Showtime Los Angeles Lakers co-star Magic Johnson thinks we're looking at something way more significant. For Magic, Wembanyama is already the greatest player of his generation.

"I had the chance to meet and talk to the best player in the world and this year's number one pick in the NBA draft Victor Wembanyama!," Johnson previously said.

An unlimited star
As it stands, Wembanyama is being guided by his compatriot agent Bouna Ndiaye. Like the others, Ndiaye is well aware of his client's hype train en route to basketball's biggest stage. However, Ndiaye is certain that no matter how much people rave about Wembanyama on paper, the truth is that nobody can really measure how great the kid is. Ndiaye has assessed a lot of potential talents in the past, but he believes Wembanyama is "unlimited."

"My friend told me, 'The son of your friend [de Fautereau] is big-time. You have to go watch him. He's 13. You have to go watch him. He's special.' So finally, I went. I called his mom and told her I was coming for fun. Not working. I'm coming as a friend. So, I went to watch. But when I saw him, I knew he was just special by the way he passed, dribbled… I saw him a few times after that and with the French U-16 team. He's unlimited."