Report: Mavericks 'seriously considering' shutting down Luka Dončić, Kyrie Irving
Callie Lawson-Freeman
CALLIE LAWSON-FREEMAN
Mon, Apr 3, 2023, 12:21 PM CDT
2 min read

274
Feb 11, 2023; Sacramento, California, USA; Dallas Mavericks guard Kyrie Irving (2) and guard Luka Doncic (right) sit on the bench during the third quarter against the Sacramento Kings at Golden 1 Center. Mandatory Credit: Darren Yamashita-USA TODAY Sports
Dallas Mavericks guards Kyrie Irving and Luka Dončić may be done for the season soon. (Darren Yamashita-USA TODAY Sports)
A little over a week after the Dallas Mavericks looked like they were imploding during a dismal loss to the Charlotte Hornets, it appears the team's stars Luka Dončić and Kyrie Irving might soon be done for the season.

"I'm told the organization is seriously considering the possibility of shutting down those guys," Shams Charania reported on FanDuel TV Monday.

The Mavericks currently sit in 11th place in the Western Conference, just one game back of the final spot in the play-in tournament. However, Oklahoma City Thunder sits at No. 10 with the tie-breaker over Dallas.

With only three games left in their regular season, many of the scenarios that land Dallas in the playoffs fall out of the team's control. The Mavs only have one victory in its last eight games.

Charania added that considerations for next season could also inform what the Mavericks choose to do, as the team plans to bring Irving back in free agency this offseason and build around him and Dončić.

"They have a top-10 protected pick. So being out of the play-in race, it behooves them not to try to keep their pick," he said.

Irving was acquired right before the All-Star break from the Brooklyn Nets. Dallas is 7-12 in the 19 games he has played this season for the Mavericks. Even though the team dropped from fourth in the West to its current No. 11 spot after his addition, he's not to blame for the Mavericks' plight.

Irving is averaging 24.2 points, 5.2 assists and 4.2 rebounds over his last five games. However, the eight-time All-Star has reportedly been playing through right foot pain due to Plantar Fasciitis since March 8.

Dončić is averaging 30.6 points 9.2 rebounds and 7.4 assists across his last five games, but dealt with a left thigh strain that sidelined him for five games in March.

The outlook for Dončić and Irving will likely only be informed in an official capacity through the Mavericks' next injury report. The team does not play again until Wednesday when they face the Sacramento Kings at home.

