A Eulogy For ‘Marvel’s Avengers,’ Officially Dead As Of YesterdaySubscribe Sign InBETAThis is a BETA experience. You may opt-out by clicking hereMore From ForbesApr 3, 2023,10:33pm EDTToday’s ‘Heardle’ Answer And Clues For Tuesday, April 4Apr 3, 2023,10:30pm EDTToday’s Wordle #654 Hints, Clues And Answer For Tuesday, April 4thApr 3, 2023,08:34pm EDTToday’s ‘Quordle’ Answers And Clues For Tuesday, April 4Apr 3, 2023,04:28pm EDTOverwatch 2’s New Hero For Season 4 RevealedApr 3, 2023,04:22pm EDTVampire Players Guide Looks Behind The MasqueradeApr 3, 2023,04:09pm EDTAnother ‘Game Of Thrones’ Prequel May Be Coming To HBO, But There’s A ProblemApr 3, 2023,02:29pm EDTStar Wars Jedi Survivor Preview Is Giving Hogwarts Legacy And God Of War Vibes, And That’s A Good ThingApr 3, 2023,12:58pm EDTChris Pine Says Kids Should Play ‘Dungeons & Dragons’ In School, And He’s Absolutely RightEdit StoryForbesInnovationGamesA Eulogy For ‘Marvel’s Avengers,’ Officially Dead As Of YesterdayPaul TassiSenior ContributorOpinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.News and opinion about video games, television, movies and the internet.FollowingApr 3, 2023,08:49am EDT|Press play to listen to this article!
Got it!Share to FacebookShare to TwitterShare to LinkedinAvengersCD
If you’ve followed my work for a while now, you’ll know that I was one of the few industry people actively attempting to cover Marvel’s Avengers, now just another relic of the live service era, of games that chased the likes of Destiny and failed.


We went through this with Anthem, of course, but this was Marvel, these were the Avengers, but uh, why were they in a loot-based game, exactly? And therein lay the main problem with the game.

As of yesterday, Marvel’s Avengers has shipped its final patch. The game will no longer be updated or supported, no future content is being made. But when I say the game is dead, I mean well and truly dead. As in, it seems like as part of some contract with Marvel, they can no longer make money off the game at all soon enough. You cannot buy the game on storefronts as of September (though it will continue to work if you already own it) and the entire microtransaction store no longer accepts actual cash. MCU outfits have mostly been gifted to players, while others can be earned with in-game currency. They’re even throwing in one final free War Machine skin for Iron Man.

AvengersCD
With a few hundred hours across all The Avengers’ characters that have been added to the game over time, I suppose I’m in a position to be one of the final arbiters for this game, more than most at least. I’ve spoken to Crystal Dynamics many times about it. Hearing their plans to just try very, very hard to make this work. But ultimately, it didn’t.

MORE FROMFORBES ADVISORBest Travel Insurance CompaniesByAmy DaniseEditorBest Covid-19 Travel Insurance PlansByAmy DaniseEditor
The problem may have been in the core concept from the start. How do you do a superhero looter game, exactly? You don’t, which is the main problem. All the loot in Marvel’s Avengers was forced to be non-cosmetic. You couldn’t mix and match armor pieces or weapons like in other games, which was part basic logic (what gear are you going to give a mostly nude, weapons-free Hulk?) and part based on Marvel having extreme control over how any character is depicted in any game. I remember even controversies about which hairstyles they were allowed or not allowed to do (these restrictions seem to have relaxed eventually).

That meant all cosmetics were either microtransactions in the store or earned skins, and were an entirely separate system from your actual gear. This could work, as that’s how skins work in Borderlands, but that game still had its vast roster of randomized guns to find. Nothing like that existed in Marvel’s Avengers.


This was also a game that just didn’t seem to fundamentally understand how live service loot loops and endgame content worked. Once you finished the rather good central campaign, the experience turned into something else altogether. A mishmash of replayed missions and maybe three different boss fights. Singular rooms of combat or weird freeroams full of mini-events. The most challenging activities in the game for a long while were Hives, near-endless, close to identical rooms of AIM baddies and robots. The game did get more challenging, interesting content like raids eventually, but that was mostly after people had moved on.AvengersCD
But I wouldn’t have played Marvel’s Avengers as long as I did if there wasn’t some spark of magic here. And there was. I was deeply impressed with pretty much every character kit they made in this game. I genuinely had fun playing all these different characters, and at least at the start, they really did do a lot of good work to make them feel unique and interesting. Later, they struggled more with this, as their PlayStation-exclusive Spider-Man couldn’t compare to Insomniac’s, Jane Foster was a mirror Thor, Hawkeye was a mirror of Kate Bishop. But the original crew felt really fun to play.
There were some legitimately interesting and powerful endgame builds as well. While no, gear didn’t affect your look, the perks they built into them could create some solid endgame-shredding characters that were a blast to play. I won’t soon forget my Thor who could nuke an entire screen with his lighting abilities, or my Black Widow tearing through everything with her auto-pistols. It reminds me of Anthem, in that way, where it was genuinely fun to play and make builds, and yet it was just…everything else that wasn’t there.
I think there was a great game in here, it just wasn’t a live service one. The campaign, the character kits, a lot of stuff went right here. But chasing the “play forever” model based around a loot farm and gear power grind simply didn’t work. There wasn’t really a time in its lifespawn when it ever did, at least not for a significant, life-sustaining amount of players.
Crystal Dynamics lives on, sold from Square Enix to Embracer Group, and now mainly focused on building an Unreal Engine 5 Tomb Raider game, back to what they did best. I’ll be there for that, and the rest of their projects in the future. They tried. I saw that much, at least.
Update (4/3): Alright I am a little unclear on why this article got so many views, as I’m not sure Marvel’s Avengers has had anywhere near 300,000 active players like, ever. My only guess is that people thought I was talking about the real Avengers dying, or something? But I’m not sure how that would even work, as two died in Endgame and the rest are pretty scattered. They’ll reassemble in a new form to fight Kang down the road but uh, yeah don’t worry, the MCU or comic Avengers are not dead. Just the game Avengers.
However, if you are here for my sparkling takes on the Marvel’s Avengers video game, I suppose I can expand on my thoughts a bit, as lord knows there’s plenty to say.
There is a world in which a live service Avengers game might have worked, but the main problem was the non-live service team running up against the challenges of live game development. I remember when Avengers first launched, the planned appeared to be that the game would start adding new heroes every few months, and from its early September launch to the holiday, rumor had it we were supposed to get Kate Bishop and Hawkeye, plus maybe even Black Panther and his Wakanda expansion for the game. Then soon enough we’d see the promised PS4-only Spider-Man, and it would be a flood of characters from there.
The actual schedule looked like this:


Marvel’s Avengers release - September 4, 2020
Kate Bishop release - December 8, 2020
Hawkeye release - March 18, 2021
Black Panther release - August 17, 2021
Spider-Man release - September 30, 2021
Jane Foster release - June 28, 2022
Winter Soldier release - November 29, 2022


So, on the one hand, you can say they did release six more heroes in two and a half years, but that was still a much slower pace than anticipated, and the only major actual content drop that happened during that time was the Wakanda expansion. Separate things like raids and Cloning Labs were not full expansions and had only minor story developments.
Another issue was leveling, as it was pretty exhausting to introduce these new characters and every time you had to farm them up to 130-150 gear score with nearly identical grinds to the 8+ characters you’d already done it on. By the time Spider-Man rolled around, I was done attempting to max character. I didn’t play Jane Foster at all, and I only used Winter Soldier for a single day. They never really figured out a good system for any of this.
I did hear that over time, they made a wider array of activities farmable with more rewards and better rewards, most importantly, but that’s another problem with live games, as if you don’t get things right near the start, you are going to have a lot of trouble convincing either new people to join up or lapsed players to return. I think we’ve seen big turnarounds happen with expansions in games like Diablo’s Reaper of Souls or Destiny’s The Taken King (or Destiny 2’s Forsaken) but I don’t think Avenger’s War for Wakanda, its only true expansion, was that moment for the game. Perhaps a rumored, second Kree-based expansion with Captain Marvel could have been, but I doubt it, and by that point, we’re talking about being three years into the lifespan of the game. It was just too late, and I understand why it was sunset the way it was.
Follow me on Twitter, YouTube, Facebook and Instagram. Subscribe to my free weekly content round-up newsletter, God Rolls.
Pick up my sci-fi novels the Herokiller series and The Earthborn Trilogy.
Paul TassiEditorial StandardsPrintReprints & Permissions