Memphis Grizzlies suffer largest blown lead of season in road loss vs Chicago Bulls
DAMICHAEL COLE, MEMPHIS COMMERCIAL APPEAL
Sun, Apr 2, 2023, 5:09 PM CDT
3 min read

11

The Memphis Grizzlies have one of the fastest paces in the NBA, and Sunday's game against the Chicago Bulls showed why sometimes that isn't always good.

Memphis led by as many as 23 points midway through the second quarter. As expected, Memphis played with the same pace in the third quarter, but turnovers and quick missed shots led to the Bulls feasting in transition and taking their first lead of the game late in the third quarter.

Chicago didn't relinquish the lead as Memphis suffered its largest blown lead of the season in a 128-107 loss at the United Center.

Ja Morant secured his seventh triple-double of the season. He finished with 17 points, 10 rebounds and 10 assists. Jaren Jackson Jr. led the Grizzlies (49-29) with 31 points.

The Grizzlies had no answer for Chicago's electric wing duo. Zach Lavine led the Bulls (38-40) with 36 points. DeMar DeRozan added 31 points.

Memphis was outscored 31-3 in points off turnovers.

Here are some takeaways from the game.

BUILDING CONTINUITY: Why the Memphis Grizzlies have bigger goals than playoff seeding this season

HALL OF FAME: Pau Gasol's Memphis Grizzlies tenure laid roots for Hall of Fame basketball career

GIANNOTTO: Should Ja Morant's missteps affect all-NBA voting? It's a $40 million question | Giannotto

A game of two halves
Usually when the Grizzlies are outscored in the paint, it means trouble. The Bulls had a 28-20 first-half paint scoring advantage, but the Grizzlies made 13 of 25 3-pointers and had 19 assists in one of their most efficient offensive first halves of the season.

The game flipped in the third quarter as the Grizzlies looked out of control and Chicago ramped up its defensive intensity. Memphis was turning the ball over and taking shots early in the shotclock, which allowed the Bulls to quickly trim the 23-point deficit. Chicago ended the third quarter on a 17-0 run.

The fourth quarter showed both teams put together big runs. Memphis got within three points when the score was 104-101, but Chicago immediately answered with an 11-0 run.

Taylor Jenkins uses nine-man rotation
John Konchar was active after missing the past two games, but he was not in the rotation. Memphis used its regular starters and a bench combination of Tyus Jones, Luke Kennard, David Roddy and Santi Aldama. Jaren Jackson Jr. battled foul trouble for most of the game, which led to Roddy playing more minutes at power forward and Aldama rotating with Tillman at center.

What's next
Memphis will play its final home game of the regular season against the Portland Trail Blazers on Tuesday (7 p.m., Bally Sports Southeast).

The Grizzlies have already broken the franchise record in a season for home wins. The Blazers are one of the few teams who have beaten the Grizzlies inside FedExForum. Damian Lillard scored 42 points to lead Portland to a 122-112 over Memphis, but he's not expected to play on Tuesday.

This article originally appeared on Memphis Commercial Appeal: Memphis Grizzlies lose to Chicago Bulls after leading by 23 points

